:OZO
Z}q't9ZtT'tw
ǡǟǡǡ
z~)z~)%Ɖ¤×
%)%)Ɖ)¤)bƉ
Ɖ
I)b:ƉFb)`)bƉz~b)~
&HIGEHIWXYH]SJXLIXSTTIVJSVQMRKKPSFEP
PMWXIHGSQTERMIW	MR]IEVW

Table of Contents 
Executive Summary 
 
............................................................................................4
Important Disclosure 
 
..........................................................................................7
Introduction 
 
......................................................................................................10
Research Framework 
 
........................................................................................14
Factor Analysis 
 
..................................................................................................17
Outperformance - The geographical view 
 
.......................................................32
Outperformance - The industry lens 
 
...............................................................116
Ten lessons on global outperformance 
 
..........................................................256
Appendix 
 
........................................................................................................269
Table of outperformers by Industry ................................................................276
  
2

The case study list by industry 
•
Energy (Neste Oyj and Texas Pacific Land Corporation) 
•
Materials (SRF Limited, Ganfeng Limited and Treatt) 
•
Industrials (Trex, Airports of Thailand and Nihon M&A Center) 
•
Utilities (Terna Energy) 
•
Real estate (Argan SA and Phat Dat Real Estate) 
•
Consumer discretionary (ANTA Sports and Tesla) 
•
Consumer staples (SalMar and Britannia Industries) 
•
Financials (MSCI and Hypoport) 
•
Communication services (JYP Entertainment and CD Projekt) 
•
Information technology (Reply S.p.A, Adobe, HMS Networks and Lasertec) 
•
Healthcare (ChemoMetec, M3 and Abbott India) 
  
3

Executive Summary  
Since the creation of the first modern stock market in 1611, economies have 
developed marketplaces to buy, sell and invest in shares of companies that 
shape how the world functions. Technology and digitalisation meant financial 
institutions and investors no longer needed a physical space, paper or even 
their voice to trade these shares. The holding period of shares also decreased; 
once an eight-year average holding period is now only 5.5 months. Innovative 
trading strategies, access to leverage, passive investing and algorithms also 
play a much more significant role within capital markets and have many 
implications.  
Despite the changes and progress we have experienced, some principles 
remained constant; future earnings and cash flows drive the stock market 
returns over the long term.  
This research aims to examine history to understand what works and drives the 
best companies, by studying the past decade and assessing the companies 
that returned more than 1,000%. We then split our analysis into four parts. In 
the first part, we conducted a factor analysis via a quantitative top-down 
assessment of the 446 companies that returned more than 1,000%. Critical 
factors such as profitability, growth, multiples and size were studied to 
determine if there are contributing qualities or attributes among 
outperformers. The results in this section can help with your searching and 
screening process for future outperformers.  
The second section examines the global outperformers from a geographical 
viewpoint. We split the world into 13 economic regions and assessed the 
macro and micro factors that may have driven their overall returns. Our 
approach in this section is more qualitative, and we focus on answering the 
big questions, such as why India has been the best-performing country since 
the start of the 21st century, why smaller populated countries like Israel and 
Sweden performed better than more populous countries or why Mexico was 
missing despite being the 15th largest economy in the world. The goal here is 
to enrich our perspectives of global investing and capital allocation from a 
geographic view.  
The next chapter, which is the most extensive section, explores global 
outperformers from an industry lens. We divide the stock market into the 11 
  
4

sectors (defined by Global Industry Classification Standard GICS) and 
investigate which sectors did better, why they did and what it means for future 
global capital allocation. We also included case studies of 26 companies 
analysing their respective business models, investment cases and lessons to 
be learnt about investing in outperformers. We added relevant snapshots of 
their financial statements and other metrics that provide an accounting 
perspective of investing in outperformers. As you will see, investment ideas 
came from unlikely areas like emerging market airports, South Korean music 
labels, Nordic farmers, and Greek energy companies. We explored each of 
these in the case studies.  
Finally, we conclude our research by sharing ten lessons we learned from the 
overall study. Our goal is to be better investors of the future, not the past, and 
we review how the information and wisdom gained from the assessment of 
history can make us better investors for the future.  
  
5

What this research does not answer 
While we will learn an enormous amount about global capital allocation in this 
research, we recognise that what we know is still only a tiny portion of what is 
out there and what we would like to know. Among the 55,000 listed 
companies, our study only covers 0.8% of them. There are also many areas of 
investing this research does not examine. We did not explore technical 
analysis, price charts and other shorter-term price action-led trading 
strategies. Although these methods can also achieve outperformance, we do 
not think we can add any relevant literature or analysis in these fields.  
Our research covered outperformance which is only half the story of what 
investors need to study in fundamental investing. 5,243 companies were 50% 
below their share price of ten years, and 2,949 companies were 50% below 
their share price of 20 years. A lot more companies underperform than 
outperform, and it would be beneficial for you as an investor to extend your 
research into learning more about the other side of the performance 
spectrum.   
Finally, while we believe history is an investor’s best friend, it could also be 
your worst enemy. What matters in investing is the future, not the past and 
investing solely with past data with no analysis or opinion of the future will 
lead to poor results. Our research, of course, focuses on what has already 
happened, and our purpose is not to find stock picks from past returns but 
rather to gain a better perspective of what drives returns and apply it to 
investments of the future. We encourage readers to keep this mindset while 
reading this.  
  
6

Important Disclosure 
Information contained herein is only current as of the printing date and is 
intended only to provide the observations and views of Jenga Investment 
Partners Ltd (“Jenga IP”) as of the date of writing unless otherwise indicated. 
Jenga IP has no obligation to provide recipients hereof with updates or 
changes to the information contained herein. Performance and markets may 
be higher or lower than what is shown herein and the information, 
assumptions and analysis that may be time sensitive in nature may have 
changed materially and may no longer represent the views of Jenga IP. 
Statements containing forward-looking views or expectations (or comparable 
language) are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and are 
informational in nature. Actual performance could, and may have, differed 
materially from the information presented herein. Past performance is not 
indicative of future results. 
Jenga IP research utilises data and information from public, private and 
internal sources, including data from actual Jenga IP trades and investments. 
Sources include, the Australian Bureau of Statistics, Bloomberg Finance L.P., 
Consensus Economics Inc., Dealogic LLC, Eurasia Group Ltd., Factset 
Research Systems, Inc., The Financial Times Limited, Global Financial Data, 
Inc., Haver Analytics, Inc., The Investment Funds Institute of Canada, 
Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), International Energy Agency, Markit 
Economics, Moody’s Analytics, Inc., MSCI, Inc., National Bureau of Economic 
Research, Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, Refinitiv, 
S&P Global Market Intelligence Inc., Tokyo Stock Exchange, United Nations, 
US Department of Commerce, and World Economic Forum. While we 
consider information from external sources to be reliable, we do not assume 
responsibility for its accuracy. 
The views expressed herein are solely those of Jenga IP and are subject to 
change without notice. You should assume that Jenga IP has a significant 
financial interest in one or more of the positions and/or securities or 
derivatives discussed. Jenga IP’s employees may have long positions in and 
buy or sell securities or derivatives referred to in this material. Those 
responsible for preparing this material receive compensation based upon 
various factors, including, among other things, the quality of their work. 
  
7

This material is for informational and educational purposes only and is not an 
offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the securities or other 
instruments mentioned. Any such offering will be made pursuant to a 
definitive offering memorandum. This material does not constitute a personal 
recommendation or take into account the particular investment objectives, 
financial situations, or needs of individual investors, which are necessary 
considerations before making any investment decision. Investors should 
consider whether any advice or recommendation in this research is suitable for 
their particular circumstances and, where appropriate, seek professional 
advice, including legal, tax, accounting, investment or other advice. 
The information provided herein is not intended to provide a sufficient basis 
for making an investment decision, and investment decisions should not be 
based on simulated, hypothetical or illustrative information with inherent 
limitations. Unlike an actual performance record, simulated or hypothetical 
results do not represent actual trading or the actual costs of management and 
may have under or over-compensated for the impact of certain market risk 
factors. Jenga IP makes no representation that any account will or is likely to 
achieve returns similar to those shown. The price and value of the investments 
referred to in this research, and the income therefrom may fluctuate. 
Every investment involves risk, and in volatile or uncertain market conditions, 
significant variations in the value or return on that investment may occur. 
Investments in funds are complex, speculative and carry a high degree of risk, 
including the risk of a complete loss of an investor’s entire investment. Past 
performance is not a guide to future performance, future returns are not 
guaranteed, and a total loss of original capital may occur. Certain transactions, 
including those involving leverage, futures, options, and other derivatives, 
give rise to substantial risk and are not suitable for all investors. Fluctuations in 
exchange rates could have material adverse effects on the value or price of, or 
income derived from, certain investments. 
This information is not directed at or intended for distribution to or use by any 
person or entity located in any jurisdiction where such distribution, 
publication, availability or use would be contrary to applicable law or 
regulation or which would subject Jenga IP to any registration or licensing 
requirements within such jurisdiction. 
  
8

No part of this material may be (i) copied, photocopied or duplicated in any 
form by any means or (ii) redistributed without the prior written consent of 
Jenga Investment Partners Ltd.  
  
9

Introduction  
There are many studies, research papers and reports on the stock market, 
investment returns and outperformers over the past years and attempting to 
add new theories on investing may be pointless. This research mainly focuses 
on lessons that the past ten years can teach us about company analysis, 
valuations and how to select winning investments in the global equity markets. 
We particularly like two recent studies covering these topics. Christopher 
Mayer’s book titled “100 Baggers” reviews American companies that returned 
10,000% over the past decades, and the research team at Alta Fox Capital 
LLC similarly produced a report titled “The Makings of a Multibagger” and 
examined companies that returned more than 500% between 2015 and 2020 
(5 years) in a presentation format.  
So why do we need further research into these companies that deliver great 
returns over time?  
First, we realised most investment research was skewed towards companies 
listed in the western world; North America and Western Europe. Most past 
research into outperformers had excluded developing economies and even 
continents like Asia despite their performance and creation of leading 
companies. Asia contributed to 59% of the 446 companies in this research. 
India alone produced 91 companies, much larger than the USA’s 60 
companies. With a population of just 9 million, Israel had more companies 
than Canada (13) and France (10). Yet, only 10% of assets managed by global 
mutual funds are invested in APAC markets, according to Blackrock.  
Second, a large proportion of past research mainly focused on the quantitative 
aspects of stock market analysis. While we agree this is useful, the analysis is 
incomplete without understanding the qualitative factors that drive company 
earnings and valuations. In many cases, we saw peers with the same profit 
margins, return on capital and growth rates go on to achieve very different 
results over the years. In situations like this, reviewing the qualitative aspects 
of investing is extremely important to understand the factors most investors 
miss when searching for outperformance.  
The primary purpose behind this research is to become better investors. Our 
goal is to learn what drives stock market performance over a long period and 
understand what factors, characteristics and traits companies that significantly 
  
10

outperform have. We also learn more about the diverse range of business 
models, frameworks and mental models from an investing lens. Our approach 
to formulating this research was by asking the big questions in business 
analysis and investing. We applied a case study approach and reviewed how 
25+ companies achieved their outperformance, covering all 11 industries, as 
defined by the Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS). We also noticed 
that certain countries, regions and industries had more outperformers than 
others and understanding the reasons behind the geographical and sector 
trends in outperformers is vital.  
We acknowledge that judging if we would have invested based on historical 
data would be worthless for you, given the hindsight bias. We will not spend 
any time during this research attempting this. We focus our case study reviews 
on exploring the diverse range of business models and investment frameworks 
across globally listed companies. In situations where possible, we prioritise 
analysing how the investment case transitioned by reading their annual 
reports, studying their financials and examining their broader industry and 
macro climate over time. We also reviewed the investor sentiment and the 
risks many had raised over time. 
Range of outperformance 
Every investor has their own investment biases. For example, we were biased 
towards the information and communication technology and consumer-
oriented industries because I had always thought that these were the best 
sectors to search for outperformance, while sectors such as materials and 
industrials are filled with just cyclical, lower margin and low growth companies. 
You will see how this bias is false and how strongly the industrial and materials 
sectors performed between 2002 and 2022 compared to the consumer 
discretionary, consumer staples and communication services industries. 
For the case studies, you will notice that each of the five fundamental 
investment styles was represented (compounders, cyclicals, turnarounds, 
stalwarts and special situations). We reviewed compounders like Tesla and 
ANTA Sports that managed to grow their business year-on-year over very long 
periods. Some were cyclical opportunities like Ganfeng Lithium and SRF 
Limited, which had their earnings growth highly dependent on the business 
cycles of their respective commodities. There were also turnarounds like Trex 
  
11

and Adobe, where management had made some mistakes with operations but 
found ways to restore growth and market leadership.  
Some companies like Airports of Thailand and Sony Group were slow growth 
stalwarts but produced market-leading returns due to their significant discount 
to intrinsic value. There were special situations like MSCI, a financial data 
group spun off from its parent company, Morgan Stanley, in 2007. It was also 
common for companies to transition across various investment styles over 
time. Britannia Industries, the Indian biscuits market leader, provided a great 
example as it moved from being a stalwart to a turnaround and later became a 
growth compounder. 
Beyond investment styles, management attributes were considered too. Some 
like Anta Sports were founder-led, some were investor turned CEO-led such as 
Tesla, some like Reply S.p.A in Italy were founding family-led, and some like 
Hypoport had gone through a management buyout. A significant proportion 
of the subset group were founder-led companies, and we explain why this was 
the case.  
While the big and growing economies like the USA, China and India produced 
the most companies within the subset group, we also saw some countries 
bucking conventional thought. From an equities view, Japan is typically 
favoured by foreign activists and investors looking for slow growth and low P/E 
companies. However, Japan was actually the third best country from a growth 
view as it produced 49 companies within the subset group. Over the ten-year 
period, more than half of these Japanese companies compounded their 
earnings by more than 20% CAGR. Smaller populated countries such as Israel 
and Sweden were also among the best-performing countries despite their 
smaller addressable domestic market potential. We explored how companies 
in these markets managed to compound earnings for prolonged periods 
despite this.  
Readers who use the list of outperformers as a tool to build their current 
investment ideas may be disappointed with the future returns of these 
investments. Only 23 of the 446 (5.1%) companies screened similarly returned 
1,000% in the ten years between the 31st May 2002 to 31st May 2012.  
As the saying goes, “past performance is not indicative of future results”. We 
will like to extend this to “but the insights and wisdom gained from the past 
  
12

can improve future results”. This is why we take such an in-depth assessment 
of what drove the outperformers.  
  
13

Research Framework 
This research aimed to assess companies that saw their share price grow by 
more than 1,000% over ten years, or 27% CAGR. 
Geography classiﬁcation  
We examined all globally listed companies except countries that experienced 
inflation rates above 30% during the decade, such as; Argentina, Iran, 
Lebanon, Turkey, Venezuela and Zimbabwe. Excluding these companies 
removed 36 companies from the subset list, which made the comparison 
across countries more accurate.  
You may notice that an Argentine e-commerce company, MercadoLibre, is 
mentioned in later segments of this research. MercadoLibre was added due to 
its US Nasdaq market listing and US dollar financial reporting. MercadoLibre 
also generates more than half of its revenue from Brazil.  
Defining companies geographically was slightly difficult, given how globalised 
companies are today. Companies like MercadoLibre that are listed, 
incorporated and generate most of their revenue from different countries 
meant we had to adjust the data. We predominantly used the country of 
incorporation and made necessary adjustments—an example are the Chinese 
companies incorporated in the Cayman Islands due to their international 
listing requirements.  
Industry classiﬁcation  
We used primary industries as defined by the Global Industry Classification 
Standard (GICS). For diversified companies, the GICS typically uses the 
portion most revenue and profits come from to assign a company’s primary 
industry. There are 11 industries in total which are directly adopted in the 
research. 
Market capitalisation  
We restricted companies to a minimum market size of $550 million as of 31st 
May 2022. We used $550 million because we wanted companies to have a 
minimum market capitalisation of $50 million at the initial period of 
  
14

compounding- a 1,000% return in a $50 million company becomes $550 
million. There are undoubtedly great opportunities in global micro caps below 
$50 million, but these companies are too small to have any meaningful impact 
on the portfolio of institutions.  
Time period 
The time period was ten years but selecting which dates was slightly tricky. We 
had initially planned on using 31st December 2011 to 31st December 2021, 
but we soon realised the market euphoria and over-optimism in sectors such 
as information technology would distort our conclusions of what it takes to 
outperform. The recent decline in global equity markets served as a reality 
check on valuations. We therefore used 31st May 2012 to 31st May 2022 as 
our time period, which produced 446 companies in total. Had we gone with 
the former time period, we would have had 654 companies in the subset 
group. 
Multiples  
For the valuation multiples, we focused on using Enterprise Value (EV) 
multiples such as EV/Revenue and EV/EBIT, rather than price-to-sales (P/S) and 
price-to-earnings (P/E) ratios. The enterprise value rewards companies with 
more substantial cash positions and lower debt levels, providing a better view 
of the financial health relative to operations.  
Operational metrics 
Although we prefer using free cash flow-based ratios as well as operational 
metrics such as the return on capital, many companies in the subset group 
experienced years with negative free cash flow due to cash flow timings, 
hence we mainly used the operating profit margins (EBIT margin) when 
discussing profitability.  
Case studies  
We selected various companies across varying sub-industries and geographies 
for our case studies. We realised how diverse these investment opportunities 
were, from their business economics, management types and investment 
styles and thus curated an extensive range of case studies reflecting it. 
  
15

Key deﬁnitions 
Subset Group/outperformers: These companies returned 1,000%+ in the ten 
years (31st May 2012 - 31st May 2022). We may also call these the “ten-
baggers.” 
Time period: 31st May 2012 - 31st May 2022 
Overrepresented/underrepresented: We use these terms in two scenarios. 
For countries, this is how a country performed relative to its peers of similar 
population, GDP or overall size of its listed market cap. Sweden, for example, 
was overrepresented in the subset group as it produced 20 companies despite 
a population of 10 million. Brazil and Mexico were underrepresented in 
population, GDP and listed market capitalisation size. 
Operating proﬁt margin: We define operating profit margin as EBIT (Earnings 
before interest and tax) over the total revenue. 
Enterprise value (EV): The EV measures a company’s total value by adding its 
market capitalisation and cash minus total debt.  
  
16

Factor Analysis 
Proﬁtability  
Objectives 
1. The market has become obsessed with loss-making companies with high 
growth potential in recent years. We want to understand how many loss-
making companies in 2012 returned more than 1,000%. 
2. In cases where companies were already profitable, we want to understand 
how relevant improvements in profit margins impacted returns. 
3. Some companies may have stayed unprofitable throughout the ten years. 
We want to understand if this was complete speculation or if shareholders had 
a reason for buying stakes in these companies. Is there any other value 
beyond future profits?  
4. Briefly examine which companies were unprofitable but became profitable 
and understand how and what clues investors could have used to gauge 
future profit levels.  
The true long-term value of a business is the sum of its future cash flows, and 
profitability is thus an essential factor in understanding what drives the future 
returns of stock prices.  
Among the 446 company subset group, 367 companies (82.3%) were 
profitable in 2012, while 79 companies (17.7%) either had no revenue or were 
operationally unprofitable.  
Unproﬁtable companies 
There are three main types of unprofitable companies;  
•
Operational but has never been profitable. (17 companies) E.g. Tesla, 
Enphase Energy and Insulet Corporation 
•
Operational and was profitable in some years before 2012. (41 companies) 
E.g. Advanced Micro Devices, Micron Technology, LONGi Green Energy 
Technology  
•
Not yet operational but spending on capital expenditure. (21 companies) 
E.g. Serica Energy, Greatland Gold and Catalyst Pharmaceuticals. 
  
17

Unproﬁtable with no previous proﬁtability  
The first group of companies representing the typical “venture capital style” 
companies of fast growth but no profitability, was the smallest group from a 
profitability perspective. Only 17 of them returned more than 1,000% over the 
next ten years (2012-2022). 
Within five years (2017), six of them had become profitable, with the average 
company compounding their revenue by 54% CAGR between 2012-2017.  
Three of the six companies came from the healthcare industry. One of them, 
Genmab, the Danish developer of antibody therapeutics for cancer 
treatments, grew its revenue by 38% CAGR over the decade and ended 2021 
with a net income margin of 36% and a debt-free balance sheet.  
Of the 17 within this group, only three companies went through the whole 
decade without achieving profitability in any year. Two were healthcare 
companies, while Plug Power was the only non-healthcare company. 
Generally, healthcare companies have more tolerance from markets to be 
unprofitable. We explore this in more detail in the healthcare section of the 
report.  
  
18
27%
52%
22%
Operational and no profitability 
Operational with prior profitability 
Not operational 
A breakdown of 
unprofitable companies (% 
of unprofitable companies)
18%
82%
Profitable 
Unprofitable
Profitable versus 
unprofitable companies

Unproﬁtable with previous proﬁtability  
In the “operational with prior years of profitability” segment, the companies 
were mainly cyclical from a business model perspective. For example, 24% (10 
companies) came from a single sub-industry, semiconductors which had 
experienced an industry-wide downturn as global semiconductor sales 
declined by -2.7% in 2012. Another example was the salmon industry. For 
these cyclical companies, one common feature was "a technical barrier to 
entry". Technical barriers keep potential competitors out of the industry and 
allow those with supply control to return to profitability quicker than in other 
sectors. 
For example, salmon has a higher barrier to entry than poultry or cattle 
farming because salmon needs unique aquatic conditions to survive. This 
explains why 85% of exported salmon comes from  the Norwegian shores, and 
with such market share concentrated in only a few Norwegian companies, the 
possibility of them returning to profitability is much higher than in the poultry 
industry.  
Beyond cyclical companies with technical barriers to entry, turnaround 
companies were present in this section. These companies typically went 
through company-specific issues and either changed management or strategy 
to return to profitability. An example is Sony Group.  
Unproﬁtable with no revenue 
80% (17 of 21 companies) came from the materials, energy and healthcare 
companies. Companies within the materials and energy industries were at the 
exploration stage of resources like lithium, oil and gas and gold. They were 
listed in only three countries; Australia, Canada and the UK, which makes 
sense given Australia and Canada’s abundance in natural resources and the 
favourable UK’s AIM exchange market that allows companies without revenue 
to list. Among these companies, only Serica Energy and Headwater 
Exploration delivered actual profits during their most recent fiscal year, which 
shows how difficult it is for public exploration stage companies with no 
revenue to transition into profitable companies.  
Within healthcare, every company was at the clinical-trial or pre-clinical trial 
stage and was listed across a broad range of developed economies like the 
  
19

US, Germany and Taiwan. The healthcare companies had a better turnover 
rate into profitable companies as biotechnology companies like Catalyst 
Pharmaceuticals and Horizon Therapeutics earned healthy profit margins every 
year post-2018. For investors with no deep insights into these clinical-stage 
companies, speculating on them may not be worth it as none featured among 
the best 100 companies from a share price return lens. PolyNovo Limited, the 
best performer among the group, returned 2,706% between 2012 and 2022 
but still has a share price lower than its 2005 peak and returned 767% (11.4% 
annualised) since going public in 1998.  
Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, another biotechnology company with the highest 
current profit margin (39%) within biotechnology, only returned 61% (or 3.2% 
annualised) since going public in 2006, again showing how difficult it is to 
outperform in these clinical-stage healthcare companies, especially when 
starting from its IPO price.  
We explore lessons from Tesla's success in the consumer discretionary case 
study section to build a framework for investing in unprofitable companies that 
can later become profitable.  
Proﬁtability  
The sheer majority of companies (367 of 446) were operationally profitable in 
2012, which contrasts a popular school of thought that global outperformers 
mainly come from unprofitable fast-growth companies. Margin expansion was 
significant for these profitable companies during the ten years.  
  
20
0
80
160
240
320
400
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
EBIT Margin > 20%
EBIT Margin > 10%
How profitability transitioned over time

10% EBIT margin: In 2012, 48% (175 companies) of profitable companies had 
an EBIT margin of 10%. By 2021, this increased to 85% (313 companies).  
20% EBIT margin: In 2012, 17%% (61 companies) of profitable companies had 
an EBIT margin of 20%. By 2021, this increased to 47% (174 companies). 
The growth in profitability levels emphasises the role margin expansion plays 
in the journey to outperformance. We explore some companies that exercised 
margin expansion in the industry case study, like Airports of Thailand, Neste 
Oyj and MSCI.  
  
21

Growth 
Objectives 
1.
We know growth plays an essential role in achieving outperformance, but 
we do not know the scale. Our first goal is to unravel this. 
2.
How fast do companies need to grow revenue and earnings to deliver 
outperformance?  
3.
Is revenue growth necessary in delivering outperformance?  
4.
What role does margin expansion play in achieving outperformance? 
Growth was another factor we identified as essential to generating great 
returns over the long term. To simplify our breakdown of growth, we look into 
four main types; 
•
Fast revenue growth and fast earnings growth 
•
Slow revenue growth and slow earnings growth  
•
Earnings growth greater than revenue growth  
•
Pure earnings growth  
We define “slow” as below 20% per annum. We have screened out certain 
companies that did not report CAGR revenue or growth data, such as; 
•
Companies with no revenue in 2012, e.g. Serica Energy 
•
Companies that changed their fiscal year, e.g. Abbott India and 
Hexatronic. 
•
Companies with interest from loans as a significant segment of their 
income statement, e.g. Bajaj Finance 
As a result of these adjustments, the subset list falls from 446 to 387 
companies.  
Fast revenue growth and fast earnings growth 
28% of the adjusted subset list (108 companies) grew their revenue by more 
than 20% CAGR over the ten years, while 19% (74 companies) grew both 
revenue and EBIT by more than 20% CAGR over the ten years.  
We were surprised to see a considerable amount of the 74 companies come 
from cyclical industries. For example, 19% (14 of the 74 companies) were from 
the materials industry, which is often seen as a low growth and cyclical sector. 
  
22

Ganfeng Lithium, a market leader in lithium mining, compounded its revenue 
and operating profits by 40% and 59%, respectively, and returned 2,749% 
over the period. In the materials industry case studies, we explored some 
reasons for their outperformance.  
Healthcare performed less than the materials industry, and only information 
technology performed better than materials with 21% (16 of 74 companies). 
Slow revenue growth and slow earnings growth  
72% of the adjusted subset list (279 companies) grew their revenue by less 
than 20% CAGR over the ten years, while 33% (129 companies) grew their 
revenue and operating profits below 20% CAGR. This was a surprise because 
we had more slower growers versus fast growers in the subset list, which is not 
consensus thought in the topic of outperformance. For these slow growers, it 
was clear that factors beyond just earnings growth contributed to their 
outperformance. 
Information technology (IT) had the most significant industry representation, 
with 31% (40 of the 129 companies) coming from the IT industry alone. One 
reason for this was due to the market sentiment shift, which was in favour of 
technology companies. While some of this sentiment shift could be due to 
fundamental reasons, there could also be speculative reasons among some 
future earnings growth capabilities.  
We explore Adobe, HMS Networks, Lasertec and Reply S.p.A in the 
information technology case studies later in the report.  
Earnings growth greater than revenue growth 
Among the 367 companies that were profitable in 2012, 74% (272 companies) 
grew their earnings faster than their revenue, leading to margin expansion 
over time. 82% of the companies also had an operating profit margin higher in 
2021 than in 2012, which again emphasises how vital margin expansion is for 
outperformers. Companies achieve margin expansion for three main reasons; 
effects of volume growth on fixed costs, pricing power or a reduction in sales 
from less profitable products or services. NVIDIA and Netflix achieved this by 
doing all three hence why they generated such strong returns over the 
decade.  
  
23

Overall, the average profitable company compounded their revenue by 15% 
CAGR and its operating earnings by 20% CAGR. 
Earnings growth only 
With all things such as valuation and market sentiment remaining constant, 
companies need to compound their earnings/cash flow by around 27% over a 
ten year period to deliver a share price return greater than 1,000%—only 31% 
of companies achieved this, which indicates factors beyond earnings growth 
influence the performance of outperformers. We explore the role multiples 
expansion plays in becoming an outperformer.  
  
24

Multiples  
Objectives 
1.
We want to understand if multiples have a role in the share price return 
over the long term. 
2.
In cases where companies were unprofitable, we want to understand if 
there were any optimal values in the EV/Revenue multiples. 
3.
In cases where EV/Revenue or EV/EBIT seemed high in 2012, we want to 
examine the growth rates needed to achieve 1,000% in ten years.  
While intrinsic valuation is subjective, the closest metric we could use to 
understand the valuations of companies in a simplified sense is relative 
multiples. Here, we focus mainly on the EV/Revenue and EV/EBIT. Although 
we can not judge what is undervalued by simply plugging a number into EV/
Revenue, using these multiples can provide some perspective on how 
valuations influence outperformance.  
We have screened out banks and other financial industry companies that may 
hold excess liabilities for operational purposes. We also screened out 
companies that had no revenue in 2012. These adjustments reduce the 
multiples subset list from 446 companies to 403 companies. 
EV/Revenue 
In the table below, we split the subset group into seven groups in ascending 
order of their EV/ LTM Revenue as of 31st May 2012. We then examine how 
each group performed from an operating profit margin, revenue and earnings 
growth viewpoint. 
50.7% of the subset group (204 companies) had an EV/Revenue below 1x 
before compounding by more than 1,000%, which gives an idea of how cheap 
companies need to be to achieve outperformance. There were two other 
interesting trends. First, as multiples increased, each group's median 
operating profit margin also steadily increased.  
Companies with an EV/Revenue of less than 1x had a median EBIT margin of 
4.4% compared to the 17% EBIT margin seen in companies with an EV/
Revenue of 3-4x. The second significant trend is that as the EV/Revenue  
  
25

multiples increase, the revenue growth needed to achieve outperformance 
broadly increases. For example, companies within the 0.5-1x EV/Revenue 
range had grown their revenue by 11.3% CAGR over the three years before 
2012, while companies with an EV/Revenue greater than 4x grew their 
revenue by 26.5% CAGR on average. 
There was a high concentration of low-margin turnarounds within the 0-0.5x 
EV/Revenue, and a classic example was Sony Corporation, the Japanese 
producer of electronics, gaming consoles and entertainment content. Sony 
had difficulties across all divisions and fell into losses in 2009 and again in 
2012. The best performers from this group were companies like S-Pool, which 
were extremely cheap, profitable, and small with a long growth runway.  
In the last group of companies with an EV/Revenue greater than 4x, the 
median company actually had an EV/Revenue of 7.1x. Here, we saw many 
companies with established or expanding moats, such as Texas Pacific, MSCI 
and M3 Japan. All three had achieved EBIT margins above 35% and grew 
their revenue above 20% CAGR. We explored the investment cases for each in 
the industry case study section. 
Overall, while these results may not help us select future outperformers, they 
could certainly support your screening process while searching for future 
  
26
Multiple EV/
Revenue 
Number of 
subset 
companies 
% of subset
FY 2012 
Median 
EBIT margin 
FY 2012 3-
Year 
Revenue 
growth 
(CAGR)
Median 
Earnings 
growth (T 3 
years 
0 - 0.5x
99
24.6%
4.4
9.8
-
0.5 - 1x
105
26.1%
7.6
11.3
11.0
1 - 1.5x
62
15.4%
9.5
12.8
-
1.5 - 2x
41
10.2%
14.3
9.0
11.0
2 - 3x
35
8.7%
14.4
15.9
7.7
3 - 4x
16
4.0%
17.0
18.0
17.0
>4x
45
11.2%
21.2
26.5
21.8

outperformers. The higher the EV/Revenue, the more an investor should 
demand growth and profitability from companies.  
We look into the results from an EV/EBIT perspective next.  
EV/EBIT  
In the table below, we split the subset group into seven groups in ascending 
order of their TEV/LTM EBIT as of 31st May 2012. We then assess how each 
group performed from an operating profit margin, trailing and forward 
earnings growth view.   
48.9% of profitable companies had an EV/EBIT multiple below 10x, which 
shows how low one has to pay for long term outperformance. That being said, 
having a low EV/EBIT alone is not enough, and future earnings growth must 
also be present for long-term outperformance. The average company 
between 0-5x EV/EBIT grew their earnings by 15.6% CAGR over the next 
three years after 2012, and as the multiples increased, the future growth 
achieved over the following three years broadly increased, as the 
Multiple EV/
EBIT 
Number of 
subset 
companies
% of subset
FY 2012 
median 
EBIT margin 
FY 2012 
trailing 
median 
earnings 
growth (3 
years)
FY 2012 
forward 
median 
earnings 
growth (3 
years)
0 - 5x 
42
12.8%
8.5
11.9
15.6
5 - 10x 
118
36.1%
10.5
19.7
18.8
10 - 15x
62
19.0%
12.2
25.1
22.9
15 - 20x 
35
10.7%
5.5
17.2
27.4
20 - 25x 
19
5.8%
10.2
26.0
26.0
25 - 30x
14
4.3%
17.0
27.1
32.2
>30x
37
11.3%
4.1
15.5
34.3
  
27

outperformers with greater than 30x EV/EBIT grew twice as fast as those with 
just 0-5x EV/EBIT.   
Amazon was the largest company in the >30x EV/EBIT and provides a good 
case study into the multiples and growth equation. In 2012, Amazon was at 
112x EV/EBIT, which would make value investors scream, but over the 
following three years, it compounded its earnings at 48.9% CAGR and 39% 
over the entire decade. Of course, if Amazon was priced at a much lower EV/
EBIT in 2012, the future returns would be even more attractive, but if the 
future earnings growth pays up for the high multiples, it is worth having a look.  
Multiples revaluation  
Multiples revaluation played a vital role for the subset companies during their 
road to outperformance. 91% of the subset list saw their EV/Revenue multiple 
expand, while 72% of companies profitable in 2012 saw their EV/EBIT 
multiples expand during the ten years. Many factors cause multiples 
expansion. There are fundamental reasons, such as companies increasing their 
earnings over time, their competitive advantages and moats strengthening 
relative to peers, and management becoming better at their job. Non-
fundamental reasons include market sentiment, shares becoming more 
accessible to large institutions and analyst coverage increasing institutional 
interest. 
It is reasonable to expect multiple revaluations over time as companies 
become operationally better (provided they are cheaply valued), but an 
investment thesis should not be too reliant on this, especially during 
overheated markets, as we saw earlier in 2022. A healthy reality check on 
multiples is to ensure that the EV/EBIT divided by the 3-year future EBIT 
growth rate is less than 1. 93% of the profitable companies achieved this in 
2012, and we believe this could be a supportive screening and assessment 
metric for investors.  
  
28

Size 
Objectives 
1.
Which market capitalisation 
segments outperform relative 
t o t h e b r o a d e r m a r k e t 
universe? 
The market consensus is that 
smaller companies have a better 
chance of outperforming; it is 
easier for a company to go from 
$10 million to $100 million than 
from $100 billion to $1 trillion due 
to the law large numbers play in 
market share and growth.  
As expected, a large part of global outperformers was concentrated within the 
nano caps segment (63%), which was significantly higher than nano caps 
representation within the broader global public stock market (46.5%) as of 
2012. Nano caps were the only segment overrepresented relative to the 
overall market.  
Large caps, on the other hand, were the most underrepresented segment as 
only seven companies delivered outperformance.  
  
29
1%
2%
10%
24%
63%
Nano caps
Micro caps
Small caps
Mid caps
Large caps
% of outperformers by 
market size
Size caps
Market cap 
(2012)
Number of 
outperformers
% subset 
group
% universe
Nano caps 
< $50 million 
589
63.0%
46.5%
Micro caps
$50 million - 
$300 million 
221
23.6%
26.3%
Small caps
$ 300 million 
to $2 billion 
97
10.4%
18.9%
Mid caps
$2 billion to $ 
10 billion 
21
2.2%
6.2%
Large caps
> $10 billion 
7
0.7%
2.1%

The seven large caps as of 31st May 2012; 
1.
Amazon ($95 billion) 
2.
ASML ($19 billion) 
3.
Thermo Fisher Scientific ($19 billion) 
4.
Adobe ($15 billion) 
5.
Keyence Corporation ($14 billion)  
6.
Sony Group ($13 billion) 
7.
Applied Materials ($13 billion) 
While the data favours nano caps, it is also likely that the number of 
companies that have gone bankrupt due to accounting fraud, 
mismanagement, or competition is also higher within the nano and micro caps 
segments. As disclaimers often warn, high risks equal high rewards.  
Failed outperformers  
With the information gathered from a key factors perspective, it may seem like 
a magic quantitative formula could be created to invest in outperformers, but 
this is far from the truth. Had we combined all our learnings across profitability, 
growth, multiples and size and invested in companies that had the metrics and 
features of most outperformers, i.e. EV/Revenue <1.5x, EV/EBIT <10x, 
earnings growth of 15% CAGR (assuming we could see the future), a market 
capitalisation of less than $300 million, we would have still missed 54% (504 of 
935 companies) that later returned 1,000% over the following ten years. 
The numbers alone do not give us enough insights into the makings of global 
outperformers. Hence, the rest of the report assesses the qualitative factors 
that drove companies from a geography and industry lens. First, we discuss 
how we can further deepen our factor research.  
Factor research beyond the scope report 
The factor analysis is not perfect, and there are many other ways interested 
investors can further assess factors driving the outperformance:  
Insider ownership: 67% of our subset list had their insider ownership above 
5% in 2012 compared to 49% of companies with reported data on insider 
ownership seen across the broader market. While this does not say much, 
  
30

further qualitative analysis could be carried out to assess if companies with 
larger insider ownership achieved better investment returns.  
Acquisitions: Our growth assessment is slightly flawed given how much 
mergers and acquisitions drove returns for some subset group companies. 
Mergers and acquisitions were central for companies like Hexatronic Group, 
Nexstar Media Group, Pro Medicus and HMS Networks. Each may not have 
made the subset list without factoring in acquisitions. A comparison with peers 
or assessment of funding structure (debt/share issue/cash) will provide deeper 
insights into why these capital allocators successfully drove outperformance 
compared to peers. Also, mining, television broadcasting and the construction 
industries had more acquisition activity than other sectors. An assessment of 
factors driving this could support the case for acquisitions as a path to 
outperformance.  
  
The risk and return of debt: Some of the best performing companies across 
the list had fairly high debt levels. S-Pool, Tesla, and Celsius Holdings had 
more than a 75% debt/capital in 2012 but still returned more than 10,000%. 
65% (291 companies) saw their debt/capital increase, while 22.4% saw their 
debt/capital increase by more than 5% between 2012 and 2022. A part of this 
is due to IFRS 16 lease accounting reporting that occurred after 2019, but this 
remains surprising for us. A deeper analysis into factors contributing to this 
against the broader macro and debt climate seen over the period would 
improve our research on factors that drive outperformance.  
Activist investing on outperformance: Some of the subset companies 
experienced activist campaigns, for example, Sony Corporation with Third 
Point LLC, Domino’s Pizza with SOC Investment Group or Adobe with 
ValueAct Capital Management. It is unclear how much of an impact these 
campaigns had on the stock return over the long term and would require 
qualitative analysis of the process and outcomes of the activist campaigns. 
  
31

Outperformance - The geographical view 
So far, we explored the big picture overview of what drives outperformance 
from a factor lens like size, profitability, multiples and growth. While the factors 
provide broader perspectives on what it takes for companies to outperform, 
there's more to learn about why they do. This section will examine 
outperformers from an investment geography lens. We first sort the 
outperformers by countries and group them into 13 investment groups:    
We breakdown the global geographical subset group into the following 13 
regions:  
•
USA (60 companies) 
•
The rest of the Americas (14 companies) 
•
Africa and the Middle East (17 companies) 
•
China (34 companies) 
•
India (91 companies) 
•
Japan (49 companies) 
•
The Asian Tigers (39 companies) 
•
The Asian Tiger cubs (27 companies) 
•
The rest of South Asia (5 companies) 
•
Australia (15 companies) 
•
The Nordic Region (33 companies) 
•
Europe G4 (43 companies) 
•
The rest of Europe (16 companies) 
  
32
4%
10%
7%
3%
1%
6%
9%
11%
20%
8%
4%
3%
13%
USA
Rest of the Americas
Africa and Middle East
China 
India
Japan
The Asian Tigers
The Asian Tiger cubs
Rest of Asia
Australia
The Nordic Region
Europe G4
Rest of Europe

The table below compares the number of outperformers by country relative to 
their public market listings. Overall, there were approximately 30,000 
companies in total, and India led the number of outperformers with 91 
companies, followed by the USA, Japan and China.  
You may notice the five countries listed in green (India, Japan, Sweden, 
Germany and Israel). These countries were the top five performing countries 
based on their representation on the subset list and their global stock market 
  
33
Country 
Subset
% of 
subset 
% of stock 
market 
Finland
3
0.7%
0.5%
Spain 
3
0.7%
0.6%
Vietnam
3
0.7%
0.9%
Norway 
3
0.7%
0.1%
Ireland
2
0.4%
0.2%
Italy
2
0.4%
0.9%
Netherlands
2
0.4%
0.5%
Pakistan 
2
0.4%
0.4%
Sri Lanka
2
0.4%
0.1%
Switzerland 
2
0.4%
0.8%
Brazil
2
0.4%
1.0%
Bangladesh
1
0.2%
0.4%
Kuwait
1
0.2%
0.4%
New Zealand 
1
0.2%
0.3%
Poland 
1
0.2%
0.6%
Saudi Arabia 
1
0.2%
0.8%
Singapore
1
0.2%
0.9%
South Africa
1
0.2%
0.6%
Hungary 
1
0.2%
0.1%
Country
Subset
% of 
subset 
% of stock 
market*
India
91
20.4%
4.6%
USA
60
13.5%
14.9%
Japan
49
11.0%
9.4%
China
34
7.6%
18.8%
Sweden
20
4.5%
1.5%
South Korea
18
4.0%
6.6%
United 
Kingdom 
16
3.6%
2.7%
Taiwan 
16
3.6%
5.1%
Germany 
15
3.4%
1.5%
Australia
14
3.1%
2.8%
Israel
14
3.1%
1.3%
Canada
11
2.5%
3.2%
France
10
2.2%
1.4%
Thailand
9
2.0%
1.9%
Malaysia 
8
1.8%
1.5%
Indonesia
7
1.6%
1.5%
Denmark
7
1.6%
0.4%
Hong Kong
4
0.9%
0.7%
Greece
4
0.9%
0.2%
Russia
4
0.9%
0.4%
* We define stock market listing by the number of companies with a market capitalisation above $50 
million as of 31st May 2022 

listing percentage. Sweden, for example, had 20 companies that delivered a 
return of more than 1,000%. While Sweden's outperformers group is smaller 
than China's 34 companies, its stock market has only a twelfth of China's total 
listings, meaning it relatively outperforms China.  
Our approach to understanding outperformance here is more qualitative than 
quantitative, and we focused on answering the big questions we had while 
reviewing the subset list. Some of the questions we answer are: 
1.
Why India has been the single best region to invest in small caps over the 
past two decades 
2.
Why does Sweden produce so many outperformers despite having a 
population of just 10 million? 
3.
How Israel is transitioning from a high innovation and technology prowess 
into building businesses with global market share and competitiveness  
4.
Why do many semiconductor companies come from the Asian Tiger 
economies?  
5.
Why does Africa and Latin America produce such a small number of 
outperformers despite their youthful and growing populations? 
6.
Why does Japan create fast-growing companies despite its slow-growth 
economy? 
7.
Where the Chinese technology opportunities came from despite the 
crackdown on the sector 
8.
Which highly innovative industries were dominated by the USA 
9.
Why do the UK, Canada and Australia have so many resources and energy 
listings 
10. How India and Europe produced some of the most exciting American 
companies 
  
34

United States of America 
Outperformers: 60 companies 
The US has traditionally been the best performing country among global 
equities. It has achieved an unparalleled level of economic development over 
the past centuries and has a robust capitalist system that supports 
entrepreneurs and forward-thinking businesses. American technological 
advancements and research and development have impacted lives and society 
globally, and it continues to lead the world in higher education. With a 
population of 330 million, American companies also have a vast addressable 
consumer market for premium products and services, coupled with a relatively 
good rule of law that governs competition.  
Due to these and many other factors, we expected the US (60 companies) to 
be the best performing country in terms of its representation on the subset 
list, but we were surprised to see it below India's 91 companies. To put things 
into market listing perspectives, there were 2,293 currently listed American 
companies with a market capitalisation above $50 million in 2012, versus the 
699 companies in India, which was three times smaller than the US. It would 
be inaccurate to ground our conclusions on this data alone, so we also 
explored data from the previous decade. 
Looking at the outperformers between 2002 and 2012, India similarly 
outperformed the US. Among listed companies that returned more than 
1,000% between 2002 and 2012, with a market capitalisation above $550 
million, the US produced 38 companies (or 13%), while India had 70 
companies (or 23%) within a subset 
group of 300 companies.  
There are reasons behind this 
relative underperformance of the 
US. First, not all US-listed 
c o m p a n i e s a r e A m e r i c a n 
companies. Among the 5,939 US 
primary and secondary listed 
companies with a market 
capitalisation above $550 million, 
just 2,457 (41%) are American 
  
35
Facts on the US healthcare and technology 
industries  
•
There are more than 585,000 technology 
companies in the US 
•
The US has the highest number of patents 
in force (3.3 million) 
•
The US has the highest healthcare 
expenditure per capita ($10,948). No 
other country comes close  
•
14% of US adults are employed in the 
healthcare industry 

incorporated companies. Some large cap NYSE companies that fall into this 
bucket are Alibaba Group, Accenture plc and MercadoLibre.  
Secondly, the US is more open to foreign 
and international companies when 
compared to other large economies. 
Despite being incorporated and listed 
elsewhere, many outperformers from 
Europe and southern Asia had the US as 
the largest market by revenue and 
profits. Swedish companies like 
CellaVision, Invisio AB and Biotage 
generated more than a third of their total 
revenue from the US. Had we adjusted 
the geography listing by the biggest 
revenue market, the US would have had 
even more outperformers.  
Finally, American companies are much 
larger in market capitalisation than their 
comparative international counterparts, and 
while the number of outperformers is smaller 
compared to India, the value generated is larger. 
Four of the five largest companies across the subset list were American, while 
seven of the ten largest were American companies. For funds seeking only 
large-cap exposure, the US is still the country to be focused in.  
The US outperformed in more technically advanced industries like healthcare 
and information technology; 58% (35 of 60 companies) came from the two 
sectors. Industries such as utilities, materials and energy had an insignificant 
role; only one company came from all three sectors combined.   
The US semiconductor industry  
The single largest sub-industry for US companies was the semiconductor 
industry, with 11 companies which was a quarter of the 44 companies in the 
semiconductor subset list. The semiconductor is among the most complex 
industries, and its role in civilisation continues to advance as technologies like 
  
36
5%
7%
7%
8%
15%
27%
32%
Information technology
Healthcare
Industrials 
Communication services
Communication discretionary
Financial services
Consumer staples
A break down of the US 
companies by sector

cloud computing, “the internet of things”, and artificial intelligence rely on 
more chips.  
Want to access Wi-Fi or Bluetooth services on your device? Broadcom likely 
made the RF components needed for access. Suppose you play PC games or 
gaming consoles, there is a 40% chance your PC chips were designed by 
either NVIDIA or Advanced Micro Devices and an even higher probability for 
gaming consoles. Suppose you want to store pictures and videos of family and 
memorable moments on the cloud or in a hard drive, it is likely Micron's 
DRAM components were used in the storage devices. These companies are 
integral to the semiconductor ecosystem and each returned more than 
1,000% over the past decade.  
 
Despite the current optimistic market sentiment, the journey of the 
semiconductor industry has not been a straight line. Semiconductors have 
probably experienced an even more cyclical journey than traditional cyclical 
commodities. Let's take the two Graphical Processing Unit (GPU) leaders, 
NVIDIA and AMD. Between 2007 and 2012, Nvidia only grew its revenue by 
30%, while AMD saw its revenue fall by 7%. Despite the growth in electronic 
devices via mobile and PC sales between 2000 and 2010, Micron Technology 
was unprofitable for six of the ten years. Its debt/capital steadily increased 
from 6.9% to 28.8% during the period. The laws of demand and supply also 
apply in the technology industry.  
A few things occurred that changed the fate of the US semiconductor 
companies. First, the global economic growth rebounded after the 2008 
recession and the demand for technology spurred by the rise of social media 
  
37
Images: The semiconductor industry represented 10% of all outperformers during the decade. Nvidia (left) 
and AMD (right) led the GPU industry. (company website)

and smartphone computing to data centres ubiquity significantly boosted the 
demand for chips. Second, there was industry consolidation among players. 
Semiconductor companies fell from 208 in 2012 to 173 in 2017, especially in 
the fabless segment (companies that contract their chip production). In recent 
years, the industry also saw a shift from a dependence on electronic device 
sales to electric vehicles and vehicle connectivity, blockchain and other 
artificial intelligence applications.  
From a micro viewpoint, discipline across the semiconductor companies 
significantly improved after the disastrous 2000s decade, and due to these 
various forces, the industry economics significantly improved over time. As we 
will see in later sections, some of the greatest investment opportunities were 
born during periods of pessimism and actual fundamental problems.   
Companies like Micron, Lam Research and Lattice Semiconductor had fallen to 
a Price/Book Value of less than 1x. GPU companies like AMD and Nvidia 
produced a return of 1,575% and 5,909%, respectively, after falling to an EV/
Revenue of less than 1x in 2012. As margins improved and the growth outlook 
became much brighter, the average US semiconductor outperformer has seen 
its EV/Revenue rise sixfold over the past decade. While the American 
companies were not the only beneficiaries of the revival of the semiconductor 
industry, on average their companies were the largest. 
Big Tech 
As we previously mentioned, the US companies represented seven of the ten 
largest companies, and all but one (Thermo Fisher Scientific) were technology-
enabled companies. The FAANG (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, Google) 
companies drove the US S&P 500 into new highs as they expanded into other 
geographical markets and entered new businesses, e.g. Amazon venturing 
into the cloud computing industry in 2006. While we would not recommend 
betting against these companies, big tech companies were not necessarily the 
best performers within their respective industries.  
We attribute this to the law of large numbers, where it becomes much harder 
to compound earnings growth the larger a company becomes. An example is 
Netflix. The media highly publicised the rise of Netflix, but Netflix was not 
actually the best-performing American media company. Nexstar Media Group, 
a leader in traditional television broadcasting, outperformed Netflix by 500% 
  
38

over the decade. If we look at the consumer product group (CPG) value chain, 
Amazon was not the best-performing company. Celsius Holdings, 
Constellation Brands and Domino's Pizza each performed better than Amazon 
by growing their position within their respective consumer product markets 
from a much smaller starting point versus Amazon in consumer retail. 
Beyond the FAANG companies, the two best performing big tech companies 
were Tesla and Nvidia. Both had a market capitalisation of just $3 billion and 
$7.7 billion in 2012, making it easier to compound growth than their larger 
technology counterparts. 
The US Healthcare industry  
Another industry that contributed to the US performance within the subset 
group was its healthcare industry, more particularly the biotechnology, life 
sciences and healthcare equipment sub-sectors.  
One of the consequences of a more economically developed, older and lower 
child mortality population is more spending and allocation towards non-
communicable illnesses; the US spends more on cancer, diabetes, and 
cardiovascular diseases than any other country. The US has also played a 
significant role in healthcare innovations like telehealth and remote patient 
monitoring, cell and gene therapy, and also smaller but still significant 
progress in drug manufacturing quality and testing, product profiling and 
documentation for pharmaceutical and drug companies.  
In the US biotechnology segment, while all five companies were post-FDA 
approval, three were still loss-making with operating loss margins greater than 
  
39
Images: Netflix (left) and Amazon (right) were among the Big Tech winners  during the decade. 
(company website)  

50%. While this will undoubtedly make traditional value investors weary, 
Catalyst Pharmaceuticals has shown that the commercialisation of FDA-
approved drugs can significantly change the financials of biotechnology 
companies, and after 12 years as a public company, it began 
commercialisation of its amifampridine (Firdapse) drug used in the treatment 
of LEMS, a rare autoimmune disorder characterised by muscle weakness of the 
limbs. Firdapse was also the first FDA-approved treatment for the condition. 
Catalyst Pharmaceuticals has already recovered its operating losses from 
2003-2017 in just three years. It does pay to be the first FDA-approved 
solution on the market.  
Thermo Fisher Scientific, the largest life sciences company in the world by 
market capitalisation and revenue, was also among the US healthcare subset 
group. Thermo Fisher's life sciences solution division grew from 5% of revenue 
in 2012 to 40% in 2021 and is now its largest segment. Its four primary areas 
within life sciences are biosciences, genetic next-generation sciences, clinical 
sequencing and BioProduction. Growth was also boosted inorganically with 
acquisitions like Life Technologies Corporation for $15 billion in 2014. 
A key theme among some of the subset companies for the US healthcare 
equipment segment was diabetes solutions. As of 2020, 34 million or 10.5% of 
its population had diabetes, with the highest prevalence among the ageing 
population. Those with insulin-dependent diabetes have long struggled with 
traditional insulin therapy procedures.  
This is where Insulet's Omnipod system comes in by providing better comfort, 
convenience and ease with the insulin delivery process. Another issue with 
diabetes is that patients may need to manage their glucose levels. Here, 
DexCom's Continuous Glucose Monitoring provides sensors that can measure 
glucose levels under the skin with readings sent to your smartphones every 
five minutes. Insulet and DexCom recently signed a commercial agreement 
integrating the Omnipod 5 with DexCom's CGM. They both delivered 1,059% 
and 2,669% return, respectively, over the decade.  
While sectors like energy and industrials played a smaller role in the US 
performance, it is worth exploring how these unlikely companies stayed 
competitive in the face of the competition despite foreign companies having 
much lower labour and operating costs. In the energy industry case study, we 
examine how Texas Pacific Land Corporation delivered a 2,636% return thanks 
  
40

to the revival of the Texas oil industry. We also explore Trex, the largest 
alternative wood producer, which went from near bankruptcy to achieving an 
industry-leading operating margin.  
  
  
41
Images: Dexcom (left) and the Insulet (right) partner to improve living with diabetes. 
(company website)

The Rest of the Americas (Brazil and Canada) 
Canada  
Outperformers: 11 companies  
Compared to the developed market peers such as Australia, the UK and 
Germany, Canada underperformed in the subset group. It produced 11 
companies (2.5% of the subset list) which was lower than the 3.2% 
representation of its stock market in global equities. We share a crucial reason 
for this underperformance of Canadian companies, but first, we explore where 
the Canadian outperformers came from.  
One area that stands out in 
the Canadian market is the 
energy and materials sector 
concentration in Canadian 
equities, which makes 
sense given its abundant 
natural resources. Canada 
is the fourth largest oil 
producer and exporter and 
the fourth largest gold 
miner. 31% of the 337 
Canadian listed companies with a market capitalisation above $50 million are 
materials or energy companies, compared to the 12% global average.  
The concentration was also reflected among its constituents, as five of the 11 
outperformers were materials or energy companies. Three of the five 
companies were pre-revenue; Lithium Americas has spent $193 million (USD) 
in operations as it continues to work with its largest partner and shareholder, 
Ganfeng Lithium, another outperformer, in scaling its Cauchari-Olaroz lithium 
brine project in Argentina. The project has an average operational cost of 
$3,579 per tonne and is expected to have an annual production capacity of 
40,000 tonnes. Another Canadian lithium company was Frontier Lithium which 
is based in Ontario via its PAK Lithium project. Frontier claims that the PAK 
deposits could achieve a lifetime revenue of up to $8.5 billion, 18 times its 
current market capitalisation.  
  
42
Facts on Canadian mining and energy industries  
•
Canada is the 4th largest oil producer and 
exporter  
•
Canada is the 4th largest gold miner  
•
Canada has the 6th largest reserve of iron ore, 
larger than the US 
•
Canada currently has the third largest per capita 
natural resources, supporting 1.8 million jobs and 
contributing 17% of its country’s GDP

Other non-renewables-linked materials companies also joined the subset 
group. Wesdome Gold is a mid-tier Gold producer with its production base in 
Ontario and its growth asset in Quebec, which is expected to restart 
production in Q3 2022. Its Ontario mine produced around 100,000 ounces per 
year. In 2012-2013, Gold prices fell by almost -30% and Wesdome share price 
declined by -80%, reaching a P/BV low of 0.4x. This was a common trend 
across all gold miners, and without a view on the price of gold, investing in 
gold miners is a challenge.  
Beyond Energy and Materials  
There were no other significant trends beyond the concentration of the 
Canadian opportunities in the energy and materials industries. The rest of the 
Canadian subset group was diverse in their business drivers, sectors and 
growth factors. 
There were two growth compounders, goeasy and Constellation Software. 
goeasy provides non-prime leasing and lending services via its easyhome and 
easyfinancial businesses, with easyfinancial representing 82% of its total 
revenue. easyfinancial loans typically range from $500 (CAD) to $75,000 
(CAD), with interest rates starting around 9.9%. Its omnichannel model for 
customer interaction also supports its loan distribution and profitability 
potential compared to traditional lending companies. Constellation Software, 
on the other hand, acquires and operates various B2B software companies 
and is led by Mark Leonard, who realised in the 1990s that the neglected 
opportunity in boring, niche software companies with small addressable 
markets could also produce fantastic returns.   
Within Canadian industrials, there were two air transport companies with 
different business models and investment cases. On one hand, we have Air 
Canada, Canada's largest airline company. Air Canada had struggled for many 
years between 2006 and 2011 and reflected in its operating profit margins, 
which only peaked at 3.7%. Unionised workers were demotivated as pensions 
were underfunded, and broader operating costs were bloated. New 
management led by Calin Rovinescu initiated a restructuring plan in Air 
Canada and focused on addressing critical issues like restructuring its pension 
plans, reducing costs by boosting utilisation of its aeroplanes and expanding 
more into transatlantic and cross-border flights. These changes brought Air 
  
43

Canada back to profitability as operating profit margins reached 10% by 2015 
and averaged around 8% until the pandemic in 2020.   
On the other hand, Cargojet, the time-sensitive air cargo services company 
founded by its current CEO, Ajay Virmani, has been profitable every year since 
going public. Cargojet is the only national network that enables next-day and 
same-day service for 90% of Canada's population. Regulation has been a 
barrier to entry for foreign-owned airlines, which has supported Cargojet's 
market share.  
The Canada-America dilemma  
Canadian companies face the American neighbour dilemma; it is easier for 
asset-lighter, innovative or consumer-oriented American companies from 
sectors like information technology, communication services and consumer 
discretionary to grow and scale into the Canadian market than in any other 
country. Beyond the geographical proximity, the two countries speak a similar 
language, over 1 million US citizens live in Canada, and multinational 
companies often group both markets as one segment. 
Canadian companies in these consumer-oriented and technology-enabled 
sectors need to be very competitive relative to their American peers if they 
want to become viable businesses due to the lack of geographical, cultural 
and economic barriers to entry. Due to these reasons, Canadian equities are 
more likely to produce most of their outperformers from asset-heavy, physical 
and less consumer-oriented sectors where management can create stronger 
barriers to entry, like in the materials and energy sectors.  
  
44
Images: Air Canada (left) was among the outperformers which is unusual for the airline industry. Cargojet 
(right) is a Canadian scheduled cargo airline company. (company website)

76% (70 of 91 companies) of Canadian stocks that returned 200% in the past 
five years have come from the energy or materials industry. Only 6.6% (6 of 91 
companies) came from the combined information technology, communication 
services, consumer discretionary and consumer staples industries, despite 
representing 14% of Canadian listed companies. Among all six companies, 
only Shopify and Novanta have a market capitalisation greater than $1 billion 
and both significantly generate more sales from the US than in Canada.  
One should not mistake our pessimism and avoid Canadian tech and 
consumer-enabled sectors. We argue it is safer from an investment view to 
ensuring portfolio companies have technical, regulatory or geographical 
barriers to entry against the imminent arrival of American competition.  
If we revisit the Canadian outperformers beyond the energy and materials 
industry, both Cargojet and Air Canada benefit from political barriers to entry 
against foreign companies, goeasy operates in the lending business and has a 
physical retail channel which defends its business against US online lending 
platforms, while Constellation Software makes more revenue from its 
American software businesses than from Canada. 
  
45

South America  
Brazil  
Outperformers: 2 companies 
The continent was the second worst performing, after Africa, in terms of 
representation among the subset group, with just three companies. Brazil 
alone accounts for most companies with a market capitalisation greater than 
$550 million at 181 companies of the 290 (308, with Argentina and Venezuela 
included). Between 2000-2012, Brazil was among the fastest-growing major 
economies, averaging around a 5% GDP growth rate and had seven 
outperformers between 2002-2012. However, the 2014 economic and political 
crisis weakened its economy, and like many emerging markets, it is 
challenging to separate market and political sentiment from stock picking. 
Between 2007-2022, the MSCI Brazilian Index has fallen by -14% compared to 
the 34% rise in the MSCI EM Index.  
Despite the challenging decade, two Brazilian and one Argentine company 
operating mainly in Brazil returned more than 1,000%. Both Magazine Luíza 
(Magalu) and MercadoLibre benefitted from the rise of the internet and e-
commerce in Brazil. Internet penetration grew from 49% in 2012 to 76% in 
2021, boosting e-commerce and online sales as a proportion of total retail. 
Brazil is now the 13th largest market in the world. Magazine Luíza similarly 
experienced a retail shift as e-commerce grew from 24% of sales in 2016 to 
71% in 2021.  
Note, Magazine Luíza's shares have fallen by -84% since November 2020, 
reflecting the consequences of paying 194x EV/EBIT for an asset-heavy retail 
business growing 29% per year.   
Unipar Carbocloro was the best performing South American company and 
achieved a 5,112% return by making the essential things in liquid commodity 
chemicals such as chlorine for water, caustic soda for beverages and polyvinyl 
chloride (PVC) used in the pipes that transport water and sanitary sewer. Its 
well-timed acquisitions of Unipar from Occidental Group in 2013 and Solvay 
Indupa helped the group accelerate its growth into becoming the largest 
manufacturer of chlorine/caustic soda in Latin America.  
  
46

Mexico  
You may notice that a major North American country was not mentioned. 
Mexico was the largest country by GDP without representation within the 
subset group. There are a couple of reasons for this. Mexican companies on 
the BMV are fairly mature and have slower growth; no listed operating 
company compounded their revenue and operating profits by more than 20% 
over the last ten years. Second, Mexico has a relatively small public stock 
exchange; there are only 110 companies with a market capitalisation of $50 
million, compared to 291 in Brazil. Its best performing company, with a return 
of 645% over the ten years, was Gruma, the packaged goods maker of corn 
flour and taco shells.  
  
47

Africa and the Middle East 
Outperformers: 17 companies 
South Africa 
Africa was the worst performing continent during the ten years and produced 
only one listed outperformer. There are 158 listed companies with a market 
capitalisation above $550 million (521 companies above $50 million), and 70% 
of them come from its three biggest economies, Nigeria, South Africa and 
Egypt.  
Afrimat, the only African outperformer, is a diversified materials and 
construction company in products like iron ore, manganese, ready-mixed 
concrete, and lime. Afrimat's well-timed expansion into the iron ore industry 
when it looked lacklustre was the main driver of its performance.  
Middle East  
Despite being a third of Africa’s population, the Middle East had 16 
outperformers, with all but two companies coming from Israel. The Saudi 
insurance market was among the fastest-growing insurance markets over the 
past decade, delivering an 8.8% annual growth, with health insurance 
maintaining its position as the largest segment. Bupa Arabia for Cooperative 
Insurance was the only pure-play insurer in the subset group and maintained 
its market leadership in Saudi Arabia’s insurance market.  
Kuwait’s Humansoft Holding, which manages two locally leading universities, 
was the only education services company in the subset group. Between 2011 
and 2021, Humansoft’s operating profit margins increased from 25% to 66%, 
and revenue and operating profits compounded by 23% and 34% CAGR.  
Israel 
Outperformers: 14 companies 
We expected Israel to outperform its MENA region peers, given its 
technological advancement over the past decades. However, we did 
underestimate the scale of its outperformance as it represented 82% of the 
  
48

Middle East and Africa's subset companies. Among its developed market 
peers, Israel has one of the smallest public equity markets, only 211 
companies were listed with a market capitalisation above $50 million in 2012. 
Israel also has one of the smallest populations; only Sweden was smaller 
among the top 15 countries and had the smallest GDP among the top 15 
economies.  
As you may have guessed, Israel's outperformers mainly came from its 
information technology. Real estate also played a significant role but let’s first 
explore Israeli innovation.  
Silicon Wadi 
Five of the 14 companies were 
directly listed as information 
technology companies, while 
an additional three were 
innovative technology-enabled 
companies like Maytronics in 
robotic swimming equipment, 
Enlight Renewable in solar 
power generation and Tadiran 
Group in air conditioners. 
These companies are not your regular technology-enabled businesses. 
Tadiran, for example, has a patent for its air purifier that kills 99% of the 
coronavirus by converting humidity in a closed space to Hydrogen Peroxide. 
Tadiran's lithium batteries also played an important role for Pfizer’s vaccine as 
they powered the cold chain Covid vaccine storage.  
Maytronic’s Poseidon division developed the first computer vision system that 
detects drowning in pools and maintains an 80% market share here. Nova and 
Camtek are both players in the semiconductor metrology and inspection sub-
sector. Camtek focuses more on higher-end inspection and advanced 
packaging. Camtek is one of the fastest-growing companies in these 
segments.  
Israel has been dubbed the Silicon Valley of the Middle East (Wadi means 
Valley in Hebrew) and has achieved tremendous technology breakthroughs 
and innovation since the 1960s. If you might be interested in learning more 
  
49
Facts about the Israeli technology and real 
estate 
•
Israel has the highest R&D as % GDP ratio in 
the world (5.4%) 
•
The GII ranks Israel 6th in knowledge and 
technology output 
•
Israeli home prices appreciated more than 
any country over the past decade (346%) 

about Israel's innovation, we recommend reading Start-up Nation by Dan 
Senor and Chutzpah by Inbal Arieli. 
There are over 6,000 startups in Israel, and the country is ranked as the sixth 
most innovative country by the Global Innovation Index (GII) in knowledge 
and technology output. The wave of high-tech firms started in the 1960s with 
the founding of ECI Telecom, Tadiran and Elron Electronics. More commercial 
innovations followed, but it was typically based on military R&D in areas like 
medical imaging and printing systems. The next wave came with the rise of 
software, and although Israel was initially slow here, many successful 
companies emerged in the late 1980s and 1990s.  
The Israeli government has played a critical role in Israel's technological 
advancements and its ability to build game-changing products. From a human 
capital view, Israel's education policy has significantly paid off as its top 
universities have developed deep clusters in innovation and research. Many 
international technology companies have research and development facilities 
across Tel Aviv, Haifa and Jerusalem, like Intel, Facebook, and Oracle 
Corporation. These multinational companies have also stepped up the 
acquisition of Israeli companies to boost their global operations in various 
fields, from industrial machinery and internet software to semiconductor 
applications; this year alone, Nvidia, Microsoft, Alphabet and Intel announced 
acquisitions of Israeli companies. 
Today, there is an emerging class of Israeli high-tech companies guided by 
entrepreneurs willing to take bigger global risks, and we would not be 
surprised to see even more outperformers come from Israel.  
The information technology revolution in Israel has boosted its overall 
economic activity in recent years; Israel has the highest research and 
development expenditure as a percentage of GDP (5.4%), and its high-tech 
ecosystem contributes 15% of the Israeli GDP and 43% of Israeli exports.  
This technological growth and development have also spurred demand in its 
real estate sector.  
  
50

Real estate 
The remaining six companies beyond the technology-enabled companies 
were from its real estate sector, contributing almost half of the total real estate 
companies in the subset group. For the residential real estate segment, the 
Israeli companies benefitted from the 346% home price rise during the 
decade, with inflation averaging at just 0.9%.  
Prashkovsky was among the beneficiaries. Prashkovsky mainly focuses on 
apartment complexes and has many projects across cities like Tel Aviv, Haifa 
and Ramla. Another group with an apartment focus was Y.H. Dimri 
Construction and Development, which has a slightly broader range of luxury 
apartments and holiday reserves in resort cities like Netanya. Others were 
slightly more diversified beyond homes; Israel Canada has an additional 
portfolio of hotels and spa centres representing almost 20% of annual 
revenue. They are also taking advantage of the growing technology 
ecosystem in Israel and now count companies like Microsoft and Wix as 
clients.  
 
Beyond the residential segment, Mega Or Holdings expanded its portfolio of 
52 shopping centres and logistics sites over the decade, supporting Israel's 
growing e-commerce industry. Its clients include multinational companies like 
Adidas, IKEA, Unilever and SolarEdge.  
We do not want to predict how many Israeli outperformers we may see over 
the future decades, but many indicators point towards optimistic numbers. 
One of the biggest drivers is the Israeli adoption of the Swedish "local 
  
51
Image: Prashkovsky (left) was among the Israeli residential real estate developers that returned more than 
1,000%. Israel Canada (right) counts technology companies like Microsoft and Wix among its clients. 
(company websites)

technology-global market model." Israeli companies are more aggressive in 
entering new markets, which significantly expands the potential addressable 
market.  
We explore the rest of Asia next.  
  
52

China  
Outperformers: 34 companies  
China was one of the top performers from a representation on the subset 
group view, but when compared to peers like India and Japan and its number 
of listed companies, China overwhelmingly underperformed. China has the 
most listed companies globally, with 5,000+ listed companies. Our initial 
rationale was that the underperformance stemmed from the most recent 
crackdown across various sectors in the past two years, like education, e-
commerce, entertainment and apps, real estate and financial technology. If we 
adjust the period from 2012-2022 to 2009-2019, the number of Chinese 
outperformers drops from 34 to 23 companies, meaning the crackdowns alone 
did not explain the underperformance of Chinese equities.  
We examined the broader MSCI China Index (table below) to understand its 
equities market better. Despite the economic miracle China experienced in 
previous decades, the MSCI China has underperformed both the MSCI EM 
and MSCI World since its inception in 1992. A $100 investment in 1992, when 
its GDP was only 3% of what it is today, would grow to only $147 (1.32% 
annualised) in 30 years. As the saying goes, the stock market does not always 
reflect the real economy.  
We examined the stock market constituents between 2002-2012 to have a 
clearer picture of the fundamentals driving the underperformance, and a few 
things stood out. Its largest companies were state-owned enterprises (SOEs) 
like PetroChina, Industrial & Commercial Bank of China and China Mobile, and 
due to their SOE status, it may be tempting to think these were slow-growth 
businesses. The Chinese SOEs (and mixed-owned) achieved relatively good 
  
53
Table: The table above compares the performance of the MSCI China Index with the MSCI EM and MSCI 
World. China has underperformed both benchmarks since its inception. 
3 years
5 years 
10 years 
Inception 
(1992) 
MSCI China
-0.44
2.29
5.69
1.32
MSCI EM
0.92
2.55
3.43
6.64
MSCI World 
6.71
7.54
9.32
7.89

earnings growth levels. Some of its ten largest companies, like CNOOC, China 
Shenhua Energy and Ping An Insurance, compounded their earnings by more 
than 20% per year between 2002 and 2012.  
CNOOC was twice as profitable as its US peers like Chevron and Exxon 
Mobile and compounded its earnings faster, but it traded at earnings 
multiples lower than both US oil majors. A similar occurrence happened 
between Chinese banks like Industrial & Commercial Bank of China and China 
Construction Bank versus US peers like JP Morgan and Wells Fargo.  
The valuation discount left us with a question; can SOEs outperform? 
SOEs like China Tourism Group and Zhengzhou Pientzehuang Pharmaceutical 
were among our Chinese subset group, so the SOE status was not the exact 
problem.  
The next question we had, which slightly contradicts most of our research, 
was, “are fundamentals all to long-term investing?”  
Before we answer this question from a Chinese equities perspective, let's first 
review some of the Chinese outperformers in our subset list. Two themes 
particularly stand out; the Chinese renewable expansion and the rise of the 
Chinese consumer.  
Chinese renewable energy 
 
38% (13 of 34 companies) of the 
Chinese companies were in the 
renewable energy ecosystem. 
Coal is China's main energy 
source and represents around 57% 
of its electricity production. 
However, coal's proportion has 
significantly fallen from 72% 12 
years ago, and the driving force 
behind this decline has been the 
rise of renewables (13.5%) and 
natural gas (8.2%). Both hydro and 
wind represent the more extensive 
  
54
Facts about the Chinese renewables 
industry  
•
China has the largest solar power 
capacity and it’s just as big as the EU and 
the US combined.  
•
China has the largest installed wind 
power capacity and it’s larger than the 
US (2nd) and India (3rd) combined.  
•
China also leads the world in 
hydroelectric generation. No other 
country comes close. 

mix within renewables, but both tend to be installed and managed by the 
public sector. Solar, however, is more private sector led and is also the most 
attractive from a profitability and growth view.  
China has a firm grip on the solar energy ecosystem from the polysilicon and 
monocrystalline raw materials, the solar cells and modules to the solar 
optimisers and inverters in residential and industrial applications. In 
polysilicon, a key raw material used in making solar wafers, China has grown 
its market share from 30% of global supply in 2012 to just under 80% in 2021. 
Tongwei and Daqo New Energy, two Chinese outperformers, are two of the 
three largest manufacturers in the world. Daqo New Energy now boasts a 
capacity of 105,000 metric tons.  
In the more efficient monocrystalline silicon market, another Chinese 
company, LONGi Green, leads global production with a 20% market share in 
wafer production and is only second to another Chinese outperformer, Jinko 
Solar. In the more consumer-facing inverter and solar storage market, Sungrow 
Global, another Chinese outperformer, maintained a market share of 30% of 
global inverters and shipped 47 GW of PV inverters last year alone.  
It is unlikely you could install your solar PV anywhere in the world without one 
of these companies involved in the value chain process. Solar energy is cyclical 
like other energy forms despite its high growth market structure. Companies 
compete not only on their technological prowess but also on cost structure, 
which puts these Chinese manufacturers at a significant advantage compared 
to global peers. Solar is also more of a winner-take-all-market, unlike oil and 
coal, which heavily depend on a country's physical oil/coal reserves, creating a 
geographical barrier to entry.  
The Chinese solar manufacturer's first-mover advantage in scaled production 
and the various domestic subsidies received put them in an advantageous 
position to develop plants and lead the solar revolution. Today, China has 
more solar production facilities than the rest of the top ten countries in solar 
production combined.   
Lithium  
The rise of electric vehicles increased the importance lithium plays in 
civilisation. The issue that investing in lithium faces, like many commodities, is 
  
55

that the commodity price can be very volatile and difficult to predict; lithium 
carbonate prices fell by -50% between 2017 and 2020 before rising by 450% 
in the next two years. For Chinese miners like Ganfeng Lithium, EVE Energy 
and Tianqi Lithium, the pricing volatility is less of an issue when compared to 
their South American and Australian peers due to their volume power. The 
Chinese companies raced to secure new mines and EV clients worldwide and 
diversified their value chain beyond mining. Ganfeng Lithium, the world's 
third-largest lithium producer, took advantage of the downturn in lithium 
prices and expanded into batteries. Its battery division now represents 18% of 
annual revenue. 
The lithium producers were not alone in benefiting from value chain control as 
the battery producers also diversified into segments like mining and vehicle 
production. BYD, the fourth-largest battery producer, became the world's first 
fully vertically-integrated EV producer. BYD acquired Qinchuan Automobile in 
2003 to gain the Chinese automotive license and began production of the 
BYD Flyer brand. The BYD F3 became the first production-model plug-in 
hybrid car. BYD today is much more diversified, integrated and sophisticated 
than ten years ago. It also manufactures buses, forklifts, trucks, and rail transits 
and is increasingly challenging Tesla and Toyota's domination in EV 
production.   
The Chinese consumer beyond Big Tech 
The Chinese consumer and information technology sectors have been under 
immense pressure recently, especially among its largest companies operating 
in e-commerce, social media, gaming and other mobile apps. There has been 
  
56
Images: BYD’s transformation has been among the most impressive stories in the automotive industry. The 
first BYD Flyer arrived in September 2003 (left). Today, the BYD Seal (right) is expected to rival the Tesla 
Model 3  (chinacarhistory.com) 

heightened scrutiny on their growth strategies and influence on society. The 
news headlines would make you think both industries have become 
"uninvestable", but 18 companies from both sectors featured among the 
outperformers.  
The consumer outperformers 
The domestic Chinese retail industry has historically been an underperformer 
despite the country's 269,000+ stores. One of the reasons behind this is the 
role foreign companies have traditionally played here; the apparel segment 
was 40% controlled by foreign brands in 2012. While companies like Uniqlo, 
Adidas and Nike still maintain a strong position, the foreign domination has 
significantly reduced, and we are seeing an emergence of Chinese-founded 
consumer brands, one of them being ANTA Sports. ANTA Sports is currently 
the third-largest sports apparel company, and like many Chinese consumer 
brands, it initially manufactured products as a contractor for foreign 
companies and then shifted into its lineup of products. Its later acquisition of 
the Chinese FILA franchise also supported its growth, and we discuss this in 
more detail in the consumer discretionary case study.  
Another Chinese consumer outperformer came from the airport retail 
segment. The number of civil airports has steadily grown in recent years and is 
expected to grow 4-5% per year over the next decade from its current 248 
airports. China Tourism Group Duty Free (CDFG), a state-owned enterprise 
that operates over 200 duty-free shops in 90 cities and across nine luxury retail 
categories, was a beneficiary of the growing retail tourism market and 
compounded its earnings by 21% over the decade. Its Sanya International 
  
57
Images: The Sanya International Duty-Free Complex (left) is the largest in the world  Aier Eye (right) now 
eyes expansion markets beyond Asia. (company website)

Duty-Free Complex is currently the largest in the world and has over 300 retail 
brands as customers. 
The Chinese consumer healthcare segment also benefitted from the growing 
consumer market. The eyewear market has grown significantly, given the 
current myopia problem in mainland China and other southeast Asian 
countries. China's leading ophthalmology hospital group, Aier Eye Hospital, 
expanded rapidly and now manages over 500 ophthalmic hospitals. Its co-
founders, Chen Bang and Li Li have now set their eyes on global expansion. 
Europe already accounted for 8% of sales in 2021. 
Do Chinese fundamentals matter? Conversion analysis  
Market participants often debate if 
fundamentals are relevant when investing 
in Chinese equities. There are many valid 
reasons behind this, such as the valuation 
spread between A-Shares and H-Shares 
listings, the volatility among Chinese stocks 
as retail investors make up 85% of daily 
trading compared to the 20% in US equity 
markets and the more prominent policy 
intervention in Chinese equities as we saw 
during the 2015 stock market crash and the 
various crackdowns from the Baijiu makers in 2013 to the most recent 
crackdown on the real estate sector. 
Our analysis of the 34 Chinese outperformers over the decade showed that 
fundamentals matter in Chinese equities to some extent; the average Chinese 
outperformer compounded their revenue and earnings by 24% and 32% per 
year, respectively, during the decade, which was faster than other major 
markets. That said, there are reasons why investors in Chinese markets need 
to also look beyond just fundamentals here.  
Conversion analysis  
From our factor analysis, we established that earnings growth is instrumental 
to outperformance and with other things constant, a company with 27% 
earnings growth per year should lead to a 1,000% share price return (*theory* 
  
58
Image: Financial Times

as real life is not constant). This also means a 20% annual earnings growth 
should lead to a 500% share price return (20% CAGR =500% in 10 years).  
The table below assesses how many companies achieved the required hurdle 
rates in four countries. We can see China has the lowest conversion rate; only 
one in ten (10.6%) Chinese companies that grew earnings by >27% per year 
over ten years went on to deliver a share price return greater than 1,000% 
which is significantly lower than other comparable countries. India had triple 
the conversion rates in both the 20% earnings growth and 27% earnings 
growth category.  
It is clear that Chinese companies underperform their peers, which was 
consistent with what we noticed during the 2002-2012 time period. Some 
explainable reasons behind the Chinese discount include the following:  
•
Listed SOEs and mixed-owned companies have a market discount. 40% of 
the market capitalisation of Chinese companies are either SOEs or mixed-
owned.  
•
Chinese companies rank relatively poorly on transparency, disclosure and 
corporate reporting. A study by Transparency International showed China 
ranked significantly lower than India and Japan in transparency and 
disclosure.  
•
The Chinese government has a more prominent role to play in industries 
and the overall market, which leaves market participants with hidden risks, 
e.g. the listed education sector companies like New Oriental Education & 
Technology crackdown on profitability.  
These should be taken into consideration when selecting companies in the 
Chinese market, and in situations where a company has a significant potential 
of running foul of the current government goals or may lack adequate 
  
59
Table: The table above compares how many companies that achieve either 20% earnings growth (row 2) or 
27% earnings growth (row 3), and return 500% or 1000% respectively. China was the lowest among the four 
China
USA
Japan
India
>20% earnings growth and >500% 10 year 
return
20.8%
26.4%
49.4%
62.5%
>27% earnings growth and >1,000% 10 year 
return 
10.6%
14.0%
34.2%
36.4%

corporate reporting, it is vital you demand more discount to intrinsic valuation 
to compensate for the additional hidden risks involved.  
In the case study section later in this research, we analyse the investment 
cases for ANTA Sports and Ganfeng Lithium. 
  
60

Japan 
Outperformers: 49 companies 
Between the 2002-2012 and 2012-2022 decades, Japan had the most 
contrasting level of outperformance difference compared to any country. In 
the 2012-2022 decade, Japan produced 49 outperformers, but between 
2002-2012 no company returned more than 1,000%. There are two immediate 
thoughts here. First, past performance without adequate context can not 
determine what future performance would be. Second, something drastic 
occurred in Japanese equities between both decades. The contrasting returns 
had nothing to do with the number of public listings; Japan represented 
approximately 9% of the world’s listed companies during both decades. It also 
was not due to the economic slowdown in Japanese equities, as the 
slowdown in the latter decade was even more severe.  
The divergence in Japanese equities was due to the Japanese asset price 
bubble of the 1990s. Between 1984 and 1989, the Nikkei index rose around 
27.5% annually, and the market PE ratio surged from 38x to 70x during that 
period (some analysts calculate the peak at 53x due to Japanese 
conglomerate accounting differences). Paying 53x for any stock market index 
is extreme, and the consequences of doing so are likely to be felt for years as 
they did in Japan. In the following years to 2002, the Nikkei 225 had double-
digit losses in six of the 12 years and the effects extended into the real 
economy as growth slowed, unemployment rates doubled, and the poverty 
rate accelerated. For readers interested in learning more about how the asset 
bubble emerged and later burst, we recommend reading the Bubble 
Economy by Christopher Wood. 
With every period of market euphoria and greed comes fear, and many 
domestic and international investors were scarred from Japanese equities for 
years. By 2011 its median PE ratio had fallen to just 11x, with conglomerates 
like Sony Group priced at just 0.15x EV/Revenue. Valuations alone can not 
explain Japan’s 49 outperformers, so we have to look beyond the valuation 
drop. A common theme among many Japanese outperformers was that their 
founders had voiced their frustration during the lost decade and then founded 
businesses that addressed societal issues. Among the 22 companies founded 
after 1990, 13 directly addressed problems that stemmed from the effects of 
  
61

the asset bubble in Japan. These companies also turned out to be unlikely 
growth opportunities.  
Japanese growth? 
Japan is not the most obvious 
country to search for growth 
ideas as an investor, given its low 
economic and population 
growth, ageing economy and 
woeful fundamental performance 
of its largest companies in recent 
years. But compared to its peers, 
the Japanese companies surprisingly grew their earnings relatively faster. 25% 
(or 12 of the 49 companies) of the Japanese subset group compounded their 
operating earnings by more than 27% CAGR (1,000% in 10 years), while 55% 
(27 of the 49 companies) compounded their earnings by more than 20% 
annually.  
One of the great facts about the Japanese listed market is the diversity of 
opportunities it presents to investors. Yet, most foreign investors focus solely 
on activist conglomerate targets or the traditional “Japanese deep value” 
opportunities.  
A few reasons contribute to the enormous opportunity set in Japanese growth 
companies in its public markets. First, the JASDAQ, a member of the Japan 
Exchange Group and the Tokyo Stock Exchange Mothers Market (Mothers), 
both focus on supporting growth and emerging companies in Japan, like the 
AIM in the UK or the recently launched STAR market in China. Companies with 
as little as 1,000 tradable shares can list on the mothers market. Among the 
4,100+ public companies in Japan, around 60% have a market capitalisation 
below ¥27 billion ($200 million), while about 75% have a market capitalisation 
below ¥69 billion ($500 million). China, for instance, has just 3% of its public 
listings with a market capitalisation below $200 million. 
As we mentioned earlier, many Japanese growth companies stood out 
because their business models were based on the effects of the lost decade 
on its economy. To explain this, we explore the Japanese consulting and 
healthcare industries.  
  
62
Facts about the Japanese economy  
•
Japan’s GDP is the third largest in the 
world (nominal) 
•
Japan has the highest proportion of a 
population above the 65 years old. (28%)

Consulting and IT services  
A quarter (13 of 49 companies) of the Japanese subset companies were either 
consultants or professional services companies, which was the highest 
proportion across all developed markets. One reason for this has been the 
lack of growth opportunities companies broadly face, given the slow growth 
within the Japanese economy. It remains an issue for large conglomerates, but 
it is a blessing for consultants that provide restructuring, acquisition and 
support services to large businesses. An example is Nihon M&A Center which 
initially started as an accounting service for other companies but then realised 
in the late 1990s that there was a much bigger market; mergers and 
acquisition advisory for companies struggling to achieve organic growth. We 
discuss Nihon M&A in greater detail in the Industrials section of the case 
studies.  
Another area the slow growth and ageing demography impacts is attracting 
and retaining younger talent. Human resource companies like Fullcast 
Holdings, S-Pool, DIP Corporation and OUTSOURCING each provide 
recruitment, staffing and human resource support for Japanese companies. S-
Pool was among the best companies over the decade, with a return of 
15,359%. S-Pool was founded by its current chairman, Sohei Urakami, in 1999 
to solve issues university graduates faced during the Asian financial crisis. 
Growth for S-Pool was initially slow, but the staffing problem Japanese 
companies faced became severe, propelling the opportunity for S-Pool’s 
services across human resources.  
Finally, another consequence of a slower growth economy and industry is that 
the need to simplify costs increases and here, IT services and consultants 
found many opportunities to grow their services. Japan and India had the 
most IT support companies in the subset group. One was Information Services 
International-Dentsu (ISID), a joint venture between Dentsu and General 
Electric formed in the 1970s. Today, ISID does a wide range of services, from 
helping companies modernise via its ISID robotic process automation 
solutions to its other CRM partnerships with larger cloud companies like 
Snowflake, Microsoft Azure and OutSystems.  
  
63

Healthcare  
Japan's biotechnology, life sciences and pharmaceuticals segments were less 
impressive than other developed countries like the US, South Korea and 
Germany; there was only one company from these segments, JCR 
Pharmaceuticals. However, an area in healthcare the Japanese did well in was 
healthcare technology. Telehealth has seen one of the fastest global market 
growths in recent years and is expected to compound around by 29% per year 
over the six years to 2028. Japanese platforms were early in realising the 
benefits of bringing healthcare to the internet, and the second largest 
healthcare technology company in the world, M3, was among the early 
adopters. Today, M3 supports over 300,000 Japanese doctors via its platforms 
like Research-Kun and netM3.  
You can think of these platforms like a google search and LinkedIn for doctors 
as they support areas like peer-to-peer research and communication, 
recruitment solutions, and clinical trial support, among other services. We 
discussed the M3 story in greater detail in the healthcare case studies.  
SMS Co and Benefit One were other Japanese healthcare-oriented companies 
that built solutions for the industry. For SMS, the opportunity came by 
focusing on information infrastructure for the ageing Japanese population. Its 
recruiting agency, Jinzai-Bank, serves the elderly care staff in getting new jobs, 
while Kaipoke serves as a management support platform that connects elderly 
care operators with various management support services.  
Beyond its healthcare technology and consulting and support industries, 
another industry and key theme for Japan over the decade was the revival of 
its semiconductor industry. We explore the investment case behind Lasertec in 
the industry case study section. 
From zero to 49 outperformers 
The Japanese number of outperformers going from zero between 2002-2012 
to 49 companies between 2012-2022 provides two lessons. First, someone 
always pays for asset bubbles; the longer and higher they go, the worse it 
becomes. The Japanese asset bubble during the 1980s affected finding 
outperformers for the following decades, and as investors, it's essential to 
remain aware of the broader investment climate.  
  
64

Finally, if you solely relied on the performance of the Japanese companies 
between 2002-2012, you would likely have shunned the country and missed 
the amazing small-cap companies that delivered spectacular returns. 
Economists were right to focus on the slowing growth and ageing population 
in Japan, but as we saw, many companies were created to solve these issues 
and their solutions created value for shareholders. In the face of economic or 
social problems, find those looking to solve the issues created.  
  
65

India 
Outperformers: 91 companies 
The biggest surprise during our research was the outstanding performance of 
Indian equities over the past decade, producing 91 outperformers (20% of the 
subset group) and was the best country in the world. To put things into 
perspective, India performed better than North and South America combined 
and was just two companies short of performing better than Europe.  
If you were like us and thought this was just a fluke due to the timing of India's 
recent equities strength, we adjusted the time horizon to both 2009-2019 and 
2002-2012, and India was again the best-performing country during both 
periods. From 2002-2012, India's performance was as dominant, representing 
21% (70 of 300 companies), compared to the US 13% (38 companies). India 
also has a smaller public market than China, the US, Japan and South Korea.  
India’s outperformance 
To understand why India outperforms, we took a step back and considered 
the broader Indian market. We compared the MSCI India and MSCI India 
Small Cap indexes with global benchmarks in the table below. The MSCI India 
and MSCI India Small caps performed much better than the Emerging Markets 
(EM) index on a three, five and ten-year horizons and since inception. We also 
noticed that the small-cap index performed better than the MSCI Index over 
the past decade but underperformed since its inception. Going back to the 
India subset group, 59% (54 of 91 companies) had a market capitalisation 
  
66
Table: The table above compares India’s stock market performance relative to the MSCI world and the MSCI 
emerging market index. India currently trades at a premium to both benchmarks which seems slightly high.
3 years
5 years 
10 years 
Inception 
(1994)
P/E Fwd
P/BV
MSCI 
India 
Small Cap
11.53
4.95
10.94
7.01
18.87
2.78
MSCI 
India 
7.58
7.43
8.23
7.47
18.84
3.25
MSCI EM
0.92
2.55
3.43
5.18
10.92
1.66
MSCI 
World
6.71
7.54
9.32
7.23
16.30
2.51

smaller than $100 million in 2012 and all but one of the top ten performing 
Indian companies had a smaller capitalisation than $100 million.  
The Indian equities performance was also stronger in recent years, pushing its 
multiples to higher levels - the MSCI India index trades at a higher PE ratio 
(18.9x) compared to the MSCI World (16.3x) and MSCI EM (10.9x), which 
seems very steep. 
While it would be easier to conclude that Indian equities are just overvalued, 
the fundamentals of the outperformers show this could be for a justifiable 
reason - 40% of Indian outperformers compounded their earnings by more 
than 20% over the decade.  
Indian companies were surprisingly older than other subset companies. A 
quarter of its subset companies were founded more than 60 years ago and 
yet, still found opportunities for growth over the past decade, although this 
was not the case for many in prior decades. One of the reasons behind this 
was that many companies started very small as market traders of raw materials 
before expanding into manufacturing finished products. We will explore more 
on this later.  
While India benefits from a fast-growing, large population, English-speaking 
and technically gifted workforce, among other macro tailwinds, the 
outperformance of the 91 companies has much more than just the 
macroeconomic landscape. As we have learned from China and Japan, 
economic growth and development alone do not drive outperformers in the 
stock market. To gain a better perspective on India's performance, we will 
analyse what happened from three lenses; industrials, the consumer and IT 
services.  
India’s consumer upscaling 
India had the largest representation across the consumer discretionary and the 
consumer staples industries, representing 38% (26 of 68 companies) of the 
consumer space. The largest companies like Britannia Industries, Minda 
Industries, Trent Limited and Balkrishna Industries, produce essential 
consumer goods like biscuits, feedstock, footwear and tyres and have been 
around for many decades. Britannia Industries, India's largest confectionary 
company, was founded in the 1890s. Some of these companies have not 
  
67

always been high flyers, growing earnings y-o-y as they did in more recent 
years.  
A significant shift occurred across Indian consumer companies; many textile 
companies like KPR Mill, Garware Technical, Trident and Page Industries saw 
their operating margins expand during the decade. Both Trident and Garware 
Technical had an operating profit margin of 8% in 2011, and ten years later, 
both companies saw their operating profit margins double to 16%. Most of 
these companies started by trading essential textile commodities from yarns 
to cotton and then gained deeper global expertise of what their clients and 
customers wanted: quality.  
These consumer companies have slowly shifted into higher quality products, 
expanded their client base into multinational partners and gained even more 
cost-saving benefits due to the increased operational scale. Trident, for 
example, initially started producing just towels but has now shifted into more 
home furnishing segments. In 2015, it received a patent for its new fabric 
methods from the European patent office and currently serves the luxury 
European home market. Its domestic luxury sub-brands like Nectarsoft, 
Organica and Indulgence retail from ₹5,000 ($63) per bedding set and has 
contributed to its margin expansion in recent years. 
Britannia Industries is another example of the Indian consumer upscale. 
Britannia was initially the largest biscuit maker but began falling behind its 
biggest competitor, Parle products, in the biscuits market. The Britannia board 
soon brought in a new CEO, Varun Berry, in 2013, and he immediately began 
cutting costs, making operations leaner while boosting plant utilisation rates 
and other operational efficiencies. Now, Britannia has set its sight on more 
premium confectionary segments like croissants, creme wafers and its rusk 
franchise, Toastea.  
Indian consumer growth 
There were also pure growth companies like Eicher Motors, Relaxo Footwears 
and Balkrishna Industries (BKT). All three are among the best consumer stocks 
of all time. BKT, for example, has returned 226,322% (47% CAGR) over the 
past 20 years, and no other consumer company comes close globally. Each 
provide great case studies into Indian founding-family-controlled companies 
that employed different strategies for growth.  
  
68

Eicher Motors owns both Royal Enfield, the oldest motorcycle brand in the 
world and a global leader in middleweight motorcycles, and VE Commercial, 
which is a joint venture between Volvo and Eicher and manufactures branded 
trucks and buses. BKT on the other hand, produce off-highway tyres for the 
agriculture and industrial industries, while Eicher Motors manufactures and 
sells its motorcycles and trucks. Unlike Eicher, BKT focused more on sales 
beyond India; almost 90% of sales come from export markets, with Europe 
representing 50% of sales. 
Both companies also focused on more niche markets within their industries. 
While most tyre companies concentrate on motor vehicles and supplying 
OEMs, BKT focuses on the replacement market, which is more stable, has a 
higher margin, and has more repeatable sales than motor sales, as mining 
vehicles replace their tyres every 9-12 months. While global rivals like 
Bridgestone and Michelin earn an operating profit margin of 11%, BKT 
achieves a margin of 24% thanks to its efficient operations and lower labour 
costs.  
Relaxo Footwear, on the other hand, is currently India's second largest 
footwear manufacturer and has a diversified range of sub-brands from Sparx in 
trainers to Schoolmate in school shoes. Relaxo's founders, Ramesh Kumar and 
Mukand Lal Dua, transitioned their father's business in bicycle parts into 
rubber footwear in the 1970s. In the past 20 years, Relaxo's sales have grown 
from INR 11,070 lakhs to 265,327 lakhs (17.2% CAGR). 
  
69
Images: Eicher Motors (left) and Balkrishna Industries (right) are among the best performing listed consumer 
companies over the past 20 years. BKT has returned 226,322% over the past 20 years (company website)

Industrials and materials  
What do steel pipes, ceramics, plastics, water softeners, pesticides and paint 
have to do with each other? These are products of Indian companies that 
returned more than 1,000% over a decade and compounded their earnings by 
more than 25%. If one ever thought compounders could only be found in the 
healthcare or the information technology industry, the Indian industrial and 
materials sector certainly proves this notion wrong. The Indian industrial and 
materials sectors produced more outperformers (38 companies) than the US 
hardware, software, semiconductors and healthcare industry combined (35 
companies); there were also more companies in the Indian steel ecosystem (9 
companies) than the US semiconductor equipment sub-segment (5 
companies).  
Although India's manufacturing output (3% of global output) is still much 
smaller than both China (29% of global output) and the US (17% of global 
output), the manufacturing sector has a lot more private and smaller-sized 
companies explaining why many were micro caps. The average company in 
the Indian industrial and materials subset group had a market capitalisation of 
just ₹820 crores ($104 million) in 2012.  
Across all 38 industrial and materials companies, we broadly had two main 
company strategies. Those like Bharat Rasayan Limited focused mainly on a 
closely related but niche product. These also tended to be the smaller group 
of companies with export markets as a much smaller percentage of total 
revenue, although this percentage is expected to grow higher due to its 
recent partnership with Mitsui and Nissan Chemicals in Japan. Bharat Rasayan 
focuses mainly on technical-grade pesticides and has two large plants, one in 
Haryana, northern India and another in Gujarat, western India. The other 
group were companies like SRF limited, which were more diversified, 
operating in several industrial groups and owning plants outside India. SRF 
Limited operates in three segments; technical textiles, packaging films, 
polymer and chemicals. Almost half of its revenue comes from foreign 
divisions and exports like its textile plant in South Africa and the BOPET film 
facility in Hungary. 
Growth was surprisingly more resilient for these larger and more diversified 
companies even in years like 2019 and 2020 when the Indian economy 
slowed. Deepak Nitrite Limited, which was among the best performers with a 
  
70

total return of 12,373% (62% CAGR), compounded its earnings by 42% CAGR 
over the decade. With a market share of 70% of India's inorganic compounds 
market, you would have expected them to correlate strongly with the broader 
industry and market, but yet, Deepak Nitrate grew earnings by 132% and 
157% in 2019 and 2020 FY. Its growth was due to its new Deepak Phenolics 
plant in Gujurat, western India. Phenol and Acetone products are used in 
skincare and nail polish products and now have over 700 customers, including 
global industrial and consumer groups like L'Oréal, Coty and Sappi. In the 
industrial segment, the potential of new plants is something markets often 
miss and for investors willing to do the leg work and study the potential 
impact on earnings, opportunities like Deepak Nitrate become more likely to 
be found.  
Many Indian industrial and material groups that turned out to be 
outperformers were also founding-family-led and had transitioned from years 
of trading commodities into manufacturing. We explore one of them, SRF 
Limited, to gain a much deeper perspective of how it achieved success with 
acquisitions and growth in manufacturing.  
IT Services  
India has one of the largest IT services markets led by multinational companies 
like Tata Consultancy, Infosys and Wipro. Thanks to its English-speaking 
population, convenient time zone and lower labour cost, India became a 
destination for back office outsourced functions like call centres and customer 
support services.  
  
71
Images: Bharat Rasayan (left) and Deepak Nitrate (right) are examples of some India’s industrial companies 
that have capitalised on the Indian economic growth and export opportunities 

By the late 1990s, the industry 
began shifting into more 
technical IT services like 
software support, automation 
processes and more recently, 
cloud-based offerings. Indian 
companies were the joint top 
performers alongside Japan 
in the IT services subset 
group, each producing six of 
the 25 companies. These companies are very different from the Indian IT 
services companies a couple of decades ago and are more global than you 
may think; all six companies had significant operations beyond India. Coforge 
Limited, the Indian cloud and cybersecurity services company, makes 96% of 
its revenue from customers outside India. Another example is Mastek which 
operates across 40 countries with application development and digital 
commerce as its largest service offering and earns virtually all of its revenue 
from outside India.  
The Indian IT services companies have also acquired international peers to 
ensure their services are not just diversified but also globally competitive with 
top software partners like Salesforce, Oracle, SAP and Amazon Web Services 
offerings. Persistent Systems Limited, one of the best performers with a total 
return of 2,094% over the ten years, recently acquired the US software 
company SCI for $53 million to broaden its solutions for American financial 
services clients. Mastek similarly acquired another US IT services company, 
MST solutions, in 2022 to boost its offerings in Salesforce consulting for its US 
and European clients.  
In a macro environment where the Rupee falls, the IT services companies also 
act as a currency hedge, given that their revenue is in foreign currency. 
Mastek, which has 69% of its current clients in the UK, with 48% being in fixed 
price contracts, financially benefitted from 2017 to 2021 when the Indian 
Rupee fell by almost 30% against the British pound.  
The Indian IT services opportunity remains huge despite already representing 
approximately 50% of service exports. The Indian companies are quite 
competitive relative to global peers and have proved that they can efficiently 
  
72
Facts about the Indian IT Services industry 
•
India has a 55% global market share of the 
services sourcing industry 
•
The IT industry has grown from 1% of the 
Indian GDP in 1997 to 8% today 
•
India exported $149 billion in IT services, with 
financial services related services representing 
41%

transition with technological advancements into new fields as they did with 
mobile and cloud computing.  
Allocating to India 
Indian equities currently trade at almost double the PE multiples of the EM 
index, recent performance has been quite strong, and the market may have 
already caught up with its investment case.  
That said, it is crucial you examine Indian companies beyond their face value 
and consider the potential of margin expansion as many companies transition 
into new product and service segments, as we saw with the Indian IT services 
companies like Mastek and the textile companies like Trident and Garware 
Technicals. The state-owned enterprises play a minor role relative to many 
Asian countries, which gives a much larger room for domestic growth in the 
private sector. It is also vital that you assess Indian equities beyond India. 
Despite a population of 1.4 billion, many companies took advantage of 
opportunities for growth beyond the Indian enterprise and consumer and have 
created more diversified revenue streams compared to other emerging market 
companies that are solely dependent on domestic customers and markets.  
  
73

Asian Tigers (Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan) 
Outperformers: 39 companies 
The term “Asian Tigers” was given to the four East Asian economies that 
underwent rapid industrialisation between the 1960s and 1990s, averaging 
annual growth rates of around 7%. Hong Kong was the first to experience 
industrialisation with the development of its textile industry in the 1950s. After 
Singapore’s independence from Malaysia, the Economic Development Board 
formulated its strategy to promote its manufacturing sector and Taiwan and 
South Korea followed with their initiatives. Today, all four economies differ 
from where they were decades ago, and the economic development 
experienced has created many investment opportunities for public market 
investors.  
During the 2002-2012 (28 companies) and 2012-2022 (39 companies) 
decades, the Asian Tigers represented 9% of all global outperformers despite 
being just 4% of the global GDP. One reason behind their outperformance is 
the number of publicly listed companies. Taiwan and South Korea have over 
4,000 listed companies together, just as many as the EU’s largest ten countries 
combined. Of course, other factors contributed to the Asian Tigers 
outperformance, and we explore the themes and industries that supported 
each economy below.  
South Korea 
Outperformers: 18 companies  
It’s surprising some international benchmarks continue to refer to South Korea 
as an emerging economy. Its GDP per capita recently surpassed both Spain 
and Italy, South Korea ranks above both economies on the Human 
Development Index (HDI) and performs better on many other metrics. Among 
the Asian Tigers, South Korea has the largest population and GDP and it was 
also the best performing Asian Tiger with 18 companies. But like Taiwan and 
Singapore, South Korea underperformed relative to its number of stock 
market listings.  
The KOSPI Index has also annualised around 7.7% since the early 1980s 
thanks to the strong fundamentals its large Chaebols had for most of that 
  
74

period. Its performance has, 
however, been much weaker in 
recent years; the MSCI Korea 
Index annualised only 3.6% over 
t h e 
p a s t 
d e c a d e . 
I t s 
underperformance has been 
m a i n l y d u e t o t h e s a m e 
conglomerates that made its 
market strong. It has one of the 
biggest market concentrations; 
Samsung Electronics and the 
related Samsung subsidiaries 
represent around 30% of its market value, making it challenging to separate 
Samsung's performance from the broader index.  
The good thing is that the South Korean market has lots of other options with 
over 1,900+ listed companies. 
Semiconductor and Electronics Ecosystem 
South Korea, like Taiwan, has seen its semiconductor industry grow rapidly in 
recent years. South Korea is only behind Taiwan in the global chip production 
market share and both Samsung Electronics and SK Hynix are among the top 
five leading Asian Semiconductor companies by revenue.  
One may think both Samsung and SK Hynix simply do everything 
semiconductor related in South Korea, but this is far from the case. There are 
more than 20,000 semiconductor related companies in South Korea and 
outsourcing and subcontracting specialised areas within the semiconductor 
value chain is the norm within the ecosystem. The single best investment 
strategy for South Korean companies were in companies that directly 
benefitted from the increased capital expenditure by these large South Korean 
technology conglomerates.  
Miwon Commercial was among the outperformers and counts Samsung as 
one of its key customers for its krypton fluoride (KrF) photoresist polymer, 
which is used in the NAND chip production via Dongjin Semichem. Another 
example was HANMI Semiconductor. HANMI recently won a ₩4.2 billion 
($3.2 million) contract to supply Samsung with its micro SAW equipments. 
  
75
Facts about South Korea’s technology 
sector 
•
South Korea ranks fifth on the Global 
Innovation Index  
•
South Korea has the second largest chip 
production market with 18% of the 
global market share 
•
South Korea has the fourth largest 
number of patents in biotechnology 

Both companies, like other materials and IT hardware and semiconductor 
companies from South Korea, were direct beneficiaries of Samsung's more 
than double increase in capital expenditure seen over the decade and went 
on to return more than 1,000% over the decade.  
Another unique feature of the South Korean semiconductor ecosystem was 
that they were not solely reliant on supplying their domestic foundries with the 
necessary inputs and equipments. They also won contracts to supply foundries 
beyond South Korea too and an example here was Leeno Industrial. Leeno 
was founded by a couple in the 1970s and initially started by making plastic 
bags. Leeno shifted into supplying component parts to the Japanese 
electronics manufacturers that were present in the 1980s and after years of 
building its technical know-how, they again shifted into the PCB testing 
process. Leeno now counts international technology companies like Apple 
and TSMC among its major clients.  
Leisure economy  
Two big trends have influenced South Korea's leisure economy; recent law 
changes for working hours and the rise of Hallyu (Korean wave). According to 
the OECD, South Korea ranked as the fourth highest in terms of average 
annual hours worked per employee in 2021, but ten years ago, South Korea 
was number two. The economic development it experienced in previous 
decades came at a cost, and in more recent years, there has been more focus 
on improving working conditions. One of the recent changes has been the 
enforcement of maximum working hours, which will reduce from 68 to 52 
hours with additional paid holidays for private companies. 
  
A direct beneficiary of this is the growth of leisure activities like sports, and 
one winner has been the golf industry, which is currently the third-largest golf 
market in the world. Golf was popularised during the late 1990s Asian financial 
crisis by Pak Se-ri when she won the Women's PGA Championship. There are 
currently seven female Korean golfers among the world's top 20, and the 
overall market commands around ₩13 trillion ($9.8 billion), with 5.9% of its 
population counted to have played the sport once. One of the outperformers 
that benefitted from this rise was Ananti, a developer of luxury leisure facilities 
like spas and golf resorts. Ananti took advantage of the country club boom in 
South Korea with its projects like Ananti Chord, which has a 500-acre golf 
course.  
  
76

Another trend that’s changed South Korean leisure is “Hallyu" which means 
“Korean wave”. South Korean pop culture, entertainment, music, and TV 
dramas have rapidly grown domestically and internationally. South Korea is 
one of the few countries with a dedicated goal of becoming a leading 
exporter of popular culture and has seen its domestic entertainment industry 
take on the global stage. In music, JYP Entertainment was the only record 
label featured on the subset list, thanks to its diversification strategy of 
forming and supporting top K-pop music groups. In games, AfreecaTV, the 
live streaming local content leader, compounded its earnings by 43% per year 
over the ten years, driven by the increased gaming content on its platform, 
improved monetisation capabilities in both advertising revenue and gift and 
content spending by streamers.  
From trends to opportunities  
Economic and social changes and trends sometimes create outperformers, as 
we saw in South Korea's semiconductor and leisure industries. But spotting 
the trend is only 10% of the work. What really matters is finding companies 
that benefit from these trends, and in hindsight, this might look easy, but the 
reality is that it's much more challenging than you think. An example is South 
Korea's music industry. While K-pop's boom was well documented, JYP 
Entertainment was the only listed record label that benefitted from it, and 
peers like YG Entertainment moved sideways throughout the decade. We 
explore the difficulties of applying this thematic approach to investing in our 
JYP Entertainment case study within the communication services industry 
review.  
  
77
Images: The South Korean market has grown rapidly in recent years and resort operators like Ananti (right) 
have taken advantage of this boom (Rory Jiwani and Ananti’s website)

Singapore 
Outperformers: 1 company 
Singapore followed Hong Kong after its independence from Malaysia in the 
1960s and had a more neoliberal approach than the rest of the Asian Tigers. 
Its government was also more involved in the formation of companies. This, 
alongside its small population of 5.7 million people, meant the opportunity set 
in the private sector was much smaller. There are 293 companies listed in 
Singapore, just under 20% of Taiwan’s public market.   
Between 2002 and 2012, Singapore did not have any listed outperformers, 
but one company outperformed during the recent decade. As we saw in other 
Asian Tiger economies like South Korea and Taiwan, Singapore similarly 
invested in its semiconductor sector by supporting local companies and 
encouraging foreign investments from chip manufacturers. AEM Holdings, the 
Singaporean system testing and manufacturer of wafer-frame probe stations, 
has been a direct beneficiary of this, especially in recent years, thanks to its 
High Density Modular Test (HDMT) sales to customers like Intel.  
Taiwan  
Outperformers: 16 companies 
Taiwan was among the Asian economies that experienced accelerated 
economic development during the decades after the 1950s. To put things into 
context, Taiwan’s GDP and GDP per capita in the 1950s were smaller than 
countries like Kenya, Ghana and Morocco. Today, its GDP is more than six 
times larger than each country. Since the 1980s, the Taiwanese economy has 
compounded by 7% per year and has experienced tremendous 
industrialisation and technological advancement despite the lack of natural 
resources. Taiwan also had an export-led economy focused on electronic 
components and devices, which was slightly different from the financial sector 
focus both Singapore and Hong Kong had.  
Taiwan had 16 companies within our subset group but surprisingly 
underperformed relative to its representation across the broader global 
market. One reason for the underperformance is due to Taiwanese 
entrepreneurship. Taiwan has over 2,000 listed companies which is almost on 
  
78

par with Germany, Italy, France and Spain’s market listing combined. Taiwan 
has long encouraged entrepreneurship, and the government founded the 
Taipei Exchange in 1994 to promote access to capital for smaller and 
emerging Taiwanese businesses. The ease of listing for these smaller 
companies supported many to go public, especially in the technology sector. 
In our view, companies that would probably have stayed private in other 
economies are public in Taiwan and trade at a significant discount to their 
Asian peers.  
The Taiwanese stock market was 
among the best performing 
economies globally and was the 
only major Asian economy we 
assessed that outperformed the 
MSCI World Index over the 
decade. The MSCI Taiwan index 
annualised 12.6% in USD 
compared to the World index of 
9.4% during the ten years while ending the decade at a lower P/E and P/BV 
ratio. The reason behind the outperformance is its semiconductor industry.  
Taiwanese technology  
Approximately 40% of all Taiwanese publicly listed companies come from the 
information technology industry, with the semiconductor industry representing 
most of these companies. From a market value view, the concentration of the 
semiconductor is even more striking. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing 
Company TSMC alone represents a third of the whole stock market. Like 
South Korea, Taiwan invested heavily in developing high technology 
manufacturing industries and developed local companies that exported value-
added products globally. Taiwan alone accounts for 53% of the global foundry 
industry led by TSMC. 
As we learned with South Korea’s Samsung, it’s worth studying the smaller 
suppliers to these large semiconductor giants during years of CAPEX increase, 
and several TSMC suppliers featured among the list of Taiwanese 
outperformers. eMemory, the world’s largest IP provider of logic-based 
embedded non-volatile memory (Logic NVM), was one of them. Since 2003, 
eMemory has licensed various NVMs to TSMC and was awarded as TSMC’s 
  
79
Facts about Taiwan’s technology industry 
•
Taiwanese foundries account for 53% of the 
global semiconductor foundry market 
•
Taiwan ranks sixth in scientific infrastructure 
(World competitiveness ranking) 
•
The Hsinchu Science Park generates US$42 
billion in annual revenue

partner of the year in 2021. Since the start of its partnership with TSMC, 
eMemory has been debt-free and profitable every year, and since 2013, its 
operating profit margin has never fallen below 43%.  
A lesser known fact is that Taiwan’s technology industry has more than just 
semiconductors. Two of the top six largest companies in the global PC market, 
Asus and Acer, come from Taiwan. Asus was founded by four former Acer 
hardware engineers in 1989 and has closed its market share gap to Acer in 
recent years. Both companies moved sideways during the decade and didn’t 
make great investments, but some of their spinoffs did. One of them, 
ASMedia Technology, was among the Taiwanese outperformers. ASMedia 
makes USB host controllers and PCI packet switches for the semiconductor 
and hardware industry. Beyond its parent company, ASMedia also counts other 
technology companies like AMD as key partners, and its net cash balance 
sheet, high-profit margin, and product expansion boosted its share price by 
1,176% over the decade.  
Beyond technology  
The other outperformers were based on individual investment cases rather 
than thematic situations. In Taiwan’s industrial sector, Taiwan’s Century Iron and 
Steel was one of the few steel producers that delivered outperformance. Its 
initial success came from its earlier contracts with semiconductor companies 
like TSMC to provide steel for their foundries and manufacturing plants. Today, 
one of its key business growth areas is contracts with offshore wind turbine 
manufacturers. Recent projects like the Fuhai Offshore Wind Power project in 
Changhua, Taiwan, have boosted its growth opportunities and its earnings 
compounded by 30% over the decade.  
  
80
Images: A few TSMC (left) suppliers benefitted from its increased capital expenditure during the ten years. 
One of them was eMemory (right), the largest IP provider of Logic NVM. (Hwa Cheng/ Bloomberg)

A long-standing manufacturing partner of Nike was among the Taiwanese 
outperformers as well. Between the 1970s and 1980s, Taiwan was the largest 
exporter of shoes, but today, the industry has lost its competitiveness to 
emerging economies with cheaper labour like Indonesia and Vietnam. Feng 
Tay was well aware that Taiwan would lose its cost competitiveness as labour 
rates increased and it began to expand rapidly into the rest of Asia. India, 
Vietnam and Indonesia currently represent 72% of its total operations, and 
Feng Tay continues to be Nike's top manufacturing partner.  
Hong Kong  
Outperformers: 4 companies 
  
The nature of Hong Kong’s economy, like Singapore’s, means its listed market 
has an unusual skewness towards the real estate and financial industries. In 
Hong Kong, 26% of its listed market is concentrated in both sectors, 
compared to 5% in South Korea and 7% in Taiwan. If we look at the real 
economy, Hong Kong has the highest bank assets as a percentage of GDP in 
the world (266%) and despite the volatility in recent years, Hong Kong still 
leads Asia as its financial centre. From a real estate view, no other city in the 
world has more skyscrapers than Hong Kong and it’s among the least 
affordable cities from a housing view.   
This skewness was also reflected across the subset group, with three of the 
four companies being investment managers with private equity and real estate 
investments. China Investment Fund (China Ding Yi Feng Holdings) and 
Realord Group were both concentrated in the real estate investment industry 
but with differing portfolio strategies. China Investment Fund had 84% of its 
assets invested in Hua Yin International Holdings, another listed property 
development and investment group with projects concentrated in Guangze, 
Fujian province, China. On the other hand, Realord Group is a more 
operational asset and property investment company with projects across the 
Caribbeans and Shenzhen, China.  
The only non-investment company was SITC International Holdings, an 
integrated shipping logistics company. While most of its share price gains 
occurred after the pandemic-induced shipping boom, its share price 
appreciated by almost 400% between 2012-2019, which was driven by its 
  
81

expansion into the Southeast Asian bulk carrier and charter container markets. 
We explore the Southeast Asian economies (Tiger cubs) next but before we 
do, let’s briefly reflect on the Asian Tiger economies.  
The Asian Tiger model  
The Asian Tiger's economic miracle serves as a case study for both developing 
and emerging economies seeking growth and opportunities available to 
companies from these countries. The focus on the semiconductor and 
hardware industries, rather than just industrials, was intelligent. These were 
industries that the Asian Tiger economies had lots of advantages over the US 
and Europe and could also accelerate their economies from education to 
research and development expertise.  
That said, overexposure to these cyclical technology industries has its costs, 
and that's where diversification comes in, as South Korea showed with its 
growing leisure and entertainment industries, expanding consumer goods 
such as the beauty industry and also advancements in healthcare (Hanmi 
Science and HLB Life Science were among the South Korean outperformers 
we didn't discuss).The Southeast Asian countries are now following the Asian 
Tiger model and we explore the outperformers each country has created in 
the next section.  
  
82

Asian Tiger cubs (Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam) 
Outperformers: 27 companies  
The five Southeast Asian economies followed a similar export-led model to 
the Asian Tigers and have experienced remarkable economic growth and 
overall development in recent years. The Philippines was the only country 
among the five that was not represented, and its stock market has not been a 
reflection of the performance of its economy. In fact, none of the five Asian 
Tiger cubs stock markets performed well during the decade despite the 
economic growth. The divergence provides a lesson, especially for emerging 
markets, that an economy's performance can be very different from its stock 
market performance. We explore this alongside other key lessons the Asian 
Tiger cubs can teach us about emerging markets investing.   
Malaysia  
Outperformers: 8 companies  
Over the past 20 years, Malaysia has more than tripled its GDP while key 
economic development and macroeconomic indicators like inflation and 
employment rate have also been robust and stable. Yet, its stock market has 
not been a great place for performance. A $100 investment in the MSCI 
Malaysia Index would have lost -2.2% per year over the past decade.  
The contrast in performance between its stock market and economic 
performance comes from its constituents. Malaysia's key growth sectors have 
mainly been concentrated in the information technology sector (22.6% of 
  
83
Table: The table above compares the Southeast Asian economies by their number of 
outperformers, listings and market size. 
Outperformers
Number of listings 
Size of stock market
Thailand
9
585
$564 billion 
Malaysia
8
450
$361 billion 
Indonesia
7
462
$607 billion
Vietnam 
3
284
$206 billion
Philippines
0
171
$292 billion 

GDP), while its stock market capitalisation is skewed towards banks. Three of 
its top four largest companies are banks that have struggled to grow in recent 
years; banks generally have become a lot less competitive with the rise of 
FinTech in recent years; only two banks featured in our 446 subset list.  
Malaysia has a competitive information technology industry thanks to the 
overall policy on education and research and development in the sector in the 
late 1990s and early 2000s. Cities like Penang became powerhouses in 
electronics manufacturing and have attracted many multinational companies 
like Dell, Intel and Bosch. The developments in the sector have yet to fully 
trickle into its stock market; among the 450 publicly listed Malaysian 
companies, only 7.8% (35 of 450 companies) are from the ICT sector. 
Malaysia’s semiconductor  
Seven of the eight Malaysian outperformers were from its electrical and 
electronics ecosystem, more particularly the semiconductor industry. Malaysia 
is currently the third largest exporter of semiconductor devices, and it has 
been a critical focus for both the public and private sectors. International 
companies like Infineon Technologies, ON Semiconductor and Osram have set 
up fabs in cities like Kulim and Penang and have boosted local production of 
trailing edge chips. Collaborations with other Asian semiconductor hubs like 
Taiwan and South Korea have increased, and both economies have been key 
exporting opportunities for Malaysian semiconductor equipment companies. 
Frontken Corporation provides a good case study of this. The Malaysian group 
started in 1996 by providing the oil and gas and manufacturing industries with 
spray coating and electroplating. It slowly transitioned to the faster-growing 
semiconductor industry with more advanced precision cleaning and surface 
treatment. Its revenue by geography also shifted; revenue from Taiwanese 
foundries like TSMC represents 69% of revenue from 0% in 2011.  
ViTrox and Malaysian Pacific Industries, like Frontken, similarly benefitted from 
the booming semiconductor industry and Malaysia's growth. ViTrox 
Corporation now counts itself as one of the leading companies in automated 
machine vision and has seen its revenue from Chinese clients grow from 12% 
in 2012 to 33% in 2021.  
  
84

On average, the eight Malaysian technology outperformers compounded their 
earnings by 36% per year over the decade, compared to the 22% seen in the 
broader technology industry.  
Beyond the technology ecosystem, Press Metal Aluminium Holdings was the 
only other Malaysian outperformer. It wasn't a great decade for aluminium as 
prices declined from their 2011 peak for most of the decade. But great 
operators like Press Metal Aluminium don't necessarily need high prices to 
grow earnings in the commodity industry. The group was founded by Koon 
Poh Keong and his brothers in 1986 with a $50,000 pool of money to rent a 
factory in Selangor, Malaysia. Thanks to its skilled and disciplined capital 
allocation, Press Metal has grown to become Southeast Asia's largest 
aluminium player and compounded its earnings by 23% over the decade. 
Thailand  
Outperformers: 9 companies 
Thailand was the best-performing Southeast Asian country, with nine 
outperformers. From a GDP, population and economic activity view, it's 
surprising that Thailand outperformed Indonesia. From an economic 
development lens, we were also surprised that Thailand outperformed 
Malaysia, given Malaysia's higher HDI and GDP per capita ranking.  
Over the past 20 years, the Thailand index has outperformed the Singapore, 
Malaysia and Indonesian benchmarks from a total return view. One reason for 
the index's outperformance is its lower concentration of major banks. Some of 
its largest companies, like Airports of Thailand, CP All Public Company and 
Thai Beverage Public Company, are more profitable and growth-oriented than 
their Southeast Asian large-cap peers. 
There was a strong presence of technology-enabled sectors among Thai's 
outperformers. Like Malaysia, the electronics industry plays a vital role in its 
exports and also among its outperformers. Both Delta Electronics, a 
manufacturer of electronic components like cooling fans and 
electromechanical devices, and KCE Electronics, a manufacturer of printed 
circuit board parts, export their products to foreign companies. Both 
companies have international sales representing more than 96% of total sales 
  
85

and count key Thai export partners like China and Japan among their top 
destinations.  
Export-led technology growth is a common theme across the Tiger cubs, and 
companies with niche products that are competitive to gain market share in 
the global sphere will likely remain an important investment theme for the 
economies. 
Thailand was more diversified than Malaysia beyond electronics and also had 
tourism-related companies among its outperformers. Thailand has the highest 
tourist arrivals among any Southeast Asian country, with China representing 
about a quarter of its total annual tourists. The types of tourists vary, but 
medical tourism plays a huge role; Thailand is Asia's biggest market in medical 
tourism. Sikarin Public Company, one of Thailand's 23 listed healthcare 
facilities, was a beneficiary of this. Sikarin has three hospitals in Bangkok with 
over 4,000 outpatients daily. Sikarin is well aware of the opportunity medical 
tourism presents them and has even set up the Sikarin International Medical 
Center to support tourists. International patients can book and coordinate 
visits from visa appointments to the airport and travel insurance arrangements. 
It may be worth exploring the rest of the Thai listed Healthcare facilities 
companies too. All 23 of them achieved an EBIT margin above 10% in the past 
year. 16 of 23 achieved an EBIT margin of 20% and grew their 3-year earnings 
by more than 20% CAGR (the pandemic has positively contributed to 
profitability).  
This leads us to another Thai beneficiary of tourism, the Airports of Thailand 
Public Company (AOT). Thailand's tourism industry was so strong that you 
didn't have to look too far to find an outperformer. AOT operates and 
  
86
Images: Sikarin was among the Thai outperformers that strongly benefitted from its economy growing tourism 
industry. Sikarin has a wide range of services across its three big hospitals. (Chalermwat Wongchompoo)

manages 39 airports in Thailand, and its business benefitted from Thailand's 
booming tourist economy. We explore the airport business model and how 
the airport group managed to deliver a return of 1,135% during the decade in 
our case study section. 
Indonesia  
Outperformers: 7 companies 
Indonesia is the largest economy in Southeast Asia thanks to its vast 
population (275 million), bigger than Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam and 
Singapore combined. Indonesia similarly followed the industrialisation model, 
but exports played a lesser role in its economic development than its 
southeast neighbours. Exports only account for 20% of its GDP, compared to 
Thailand's 60% and Malaysia's 65%. The benefit of its lower export 
dependency is that it partially shields its economy from global shocks. During 
the financial crisis, Indonesia was one of the few economies that registered 
GDP growth in 2008 and 2009, unlike Thailand and Malaysia (this was not the 
case during the Asian financial crisis).  
The technology sector also plays a smaller role, with industries like food and 
agriculture, raw materials and mining having a more significant representation 
when compared to Malaysia and Thailand. As a proportion of GDP, agriculture 
makes up 13.3% of Indonesia's GDP, compared to Malaysia's 9.6%. The nature 
of Indonesia's economy also skewed its outperformers towards these sectors. 
Chandra Asri and its parent, Barito Pacific, were the largest companies in the 
Indonesian subset, and both companies operate in the petrochemical industry. 
Chandra Asri, Indonesia's largest petrochemical company, is the country's only 
Naphtha Cracker producing chemicals like olefin and polyolefin, which are 
used in food packaging, milk bottles and other plastics and rubber products. 
Barito Pacific and its founder, Prajogo Pangestu, acquired a 45% stake in 
Chandra Asri in the late 2000s. The market had discounted its real value for 
years as it was valued at just half its book value in 2012.  
One of the most prominent themes across emerging market funds is 
Indonesia's packaged food industry, where its two largest companies, 
Indofood Sukses Makmur (the maker of Indomie noodles) and Mayora Indah 
(the world's largest coffee candy manufacturer), play a key role in emerging 
market portfolios.  
  
87

However, their shares didn't have a great decade as they moved sideways for 
most of the decade. The industry's only outperformer was the lesser known 
but much faster growing Siantar Top. The company started in Sidoarjo, East 
Java, in the early 1970s and later expanded its factories into other cities like 
Medan, Bekasi and Makassar. Its diversified brand portfolio range from snacks 
and noodles to biscuits and candy. 
We briefly discussed Southeast Asia's growing maritime and shipping industry 
in the Hong Kong section. The region's maritime industry has experienced 
growth due to its strong economic growth and Singapore's increasing role in 
global trade; Singapore has the fourth largest deadweight capacity globally. 
While Indonesia's maritime is still emerging, its industry is becoming more 
important in the global landscape, and two beneficiaries of this are Temas 
Shipping and Samudera. Without the pandemic's effect on freight rates, it's 
unlikely both companies would have made it to the list of outperformers. But 
still, both provide great case studies into investing in the cyclical shipping 
industry in Southeast Asia.  
Vietnam 
Outperformers: 3 companies 
The MSCI Vietnam Index was surprisingly the best performing index among 
the Asian Tiger cubs, but its market performance did not trickle into the 
number of outperformers as Vietnam only did better than the Philippines. One 
reason behind this is the representation of the real estate industry in 
Vietnamese equities. Four of its ten largest companies are from the real estate 
industry, which tends to be more stable with value appreciation.  
All three outperformers were at different stages of the building and 
construction value chain. It may be tempting to simply attribute their 
performance to the booming Vietnam real estate market, but their investment 
cases were company-specific driven. They also had differing investment 
drivers, ownership culture, strategy, and paths to outperformance. Phat Dat 
and Hoa Phat were founded by outsider entrepreneurs who saw opportunities 
in the building and construction ecosystem.  
  
88

Tran Dinh Long initially started Hoa Phat as an equipment distributor in 1992 
before expanding into steel pipes after noticing the steel manufacturing 
production gap between Taiwan and Vietnam. Like Tran Dinh Long, Nguyen 
Van Dat was similarly an outsider in the real estate industry and founded Phat 
Dat after a career trading and distributing automotive and metals. Today, Phat 
Dat has developed various ambitious luxury apartments in Ho Chi Minh City, 
Vietnam, and we discuss their growth in our real estate case study later in the 
report.  
Unlike Phat Dat and Hoa Phat, Vicostone was not founder-led and was 
originally state-owned. Its current chairman, Ho Xuan Nang, was brought in 
when Vicostone was on the verge of bankruptcy. He steered its recovery and 
later expansion into more premium and higher grade quartz stone products 
for the construction industry. Unlike Vietnam's other outperformers, Vicostone 
isn't too dependent on the local economy as it makes 74% of its total revenue 
from export markets.  
Investing in emerging markets - A Southeast Asia review 
Hundreds of emerging market funds are launched yearly to provide investors 
with diversification and growth, but many of them end up underperforming 
global benchmarks; the MSCI EM Index returned just 3.4% per year compared 
to the MSCI World's 9.3% annualised return. The underperformance of 
emerging markets has left many allocators with the question, is there an 
investment case for emerging markets?  
  
89
Images: Vicostone is among the global leaders in high grade quartz stones (left) and has benefitted from 
growth in export markets. Hoa Phat (right) has become one of Vietnam’s successful growth stories. 

From an outperformance view, there seems to be some case. 171 of the 446 
outperformers (38%) came from emerging and frontier markets, which shows 
there's some case for allocation. The issue here is the performance of large 
caps, which is often skewed towards slower growth and constrained 
companies. If you created an equally weighted portfolio of the largest 25 
Southeast Asian companies, you would have returned only 3.2% per year, 
underperforming a similar developed markets portfolio return of 9.2%.   
Bank Central Asia and Bank Rakyat Indonesia were the only companies among 
the largest 25 that returned more than 15% per year. Across the largest 250 
companies in the region, only Airports of Thailand returned more than 
1,000%, which shows how difficult it is to outperform, especially when 
managing a sizable portfolio. Investing in emerging markets is more of a stock 
pickers game, and simply buying indexes may not be the right strategy.  
The learnings from exploring the Southeast Asia outperformers have taught us 
some critical lessons on emerging market investing, and we can sum this into 
six crucial rules. 
Six crucial rules for emerging market investing 
•
When building frameworks, avoid grouping all emerging market 
economies together. The opportunities in Malaysia were very different 
from those in Indonesia.  
•
Picking stocks based on macro factors alone is as dangerous as ignoring 
the macroeconomic conditions in emerging markets.  
•
Before selecting stocks, benchmark their fundamentals and valuation 
against international peers. Companies that outperformed, like Airports of 
Thailand and Siantar Top, had some of the best fundamentals in their 
industries globally.  
•
Minimise the role “stories” play in the investment case, and focus on the 
fundamentals. The Philippines economic growth story didn’t lead to 
outperformers. None of its largest companies delivered an operating profit 
growth of more than 10% over the ten years.  
•
Investing in companies with great operators and management is extremely 
important in emerging markets. 
•
Foreign exchange rates play a big role in both company fundamentals and 
the share price return. Watch it closely. 
  
90

Rest of South Asia (Bangladesh, Pakistan and Sri Lanka)  
Outperformers: 5 companies 
The rest of South Asia may have performed well relative to its representation 
on a market listing view, but investing in their broader indexes has not been a 
great period. Each country's MSCI index is valued much less than the value 
ten years ago, especially in US dollar terms. $1 invested in the Pakistani index 
would be worth just $0.2 or $0.3 in the Sri Lankan index. Despite 
Bangladeshi's outstanding economic growth achievements in recent years, its 
index similarly underperformed the broader MSCI Frontier Market index, 
annualising just 2% over the ten years.  
On a more positive note, the region's outperformers had some of the best 
fundamentals in their respective industries. In energy, Mari Petroleum, 
Pakistan's second-largest gas producer, compounded its earnings by 34% 
thanks to its production investments in the Mari Gas Field located in Sindh, 
Pakistan. In Tobacco, Pakistan Tobacco Company (PTC) was the only tobacco 
company across the subset list. PTC is a subsidiary of British American 
Tobacco and markets the group's brands like Dunhill, Gold Leaf and Capstan. 
PTC similarly achieved high rates as it compounded its earnings by 43% and 
delivered a return of 1,672% over the period.  
Like most frontier markets, a significant constraint for investors is size. 
Bangladesh, for example, has over 350+ listed companies, but only 16 have a 
market capitalisation above our research requirement of $550 million. In Sri 
Lanka, among its 260+ listed companies, only two met our size limit, and both 
turned out to be outperformers. Had we considered companies below our 
threshold, the number of outperformers from the rest of South Asia would 
have been 34 companies or 3.7% of the adjusted subset group. For nano-cap 
investors, the case for the region becomes a lot more promising.  
  
91

Australia  
Outperformers: 14 companies  
Australia was among the countries that both outperformed relative to the size 
of its subset list and overrepresentation relative to the number of listed 
companies. Only a handful of countries have returned more than the MSCI 
World since its inception, and Australia is among them. One reason for this is 
Australia’s exposure to the materials industry which has done better than the 
broader index. Among its 1,500+ listed companies, 53% come from the 
resources sector. From a GDP view, the mining industry contributes 10% to its 
GDP and has accounted for 40% of all investments since 2005. It is the largest 
producer of iron ore and bauxite, the second largest in gold and lead, and the 
third largest in zinc, manganese, cobalt and uranium.  
As you may have already 
guessed, the materials industry 
w a s s i m i l a r l y t h e m o s t 
significant contributor to 
Australia’s outperformance, but 
they were not your large, 
diversified miners with global 
operations in cities like Perth 
and other international mines.  
As of 2010, none of the four Australian materials outperformers had made any 
revenue, and even today, only one of the four, Northern Star Resources, is 
revenue generating. Northern Star had spent seven years exploring ore 
deposits in East Kimberley, Western Australia, and it was after the acquisition 
of Paulsens Gold Mine for $40 million (AUD) in 2010 that Northern Star 
became profitable. Within its first seven months, Northern Star had already 
made back its purchase price and earned a 30% operating margin in the 2012 
FY.  
The other three Australian miners were focused on exploring resources that 
would benefit from the rise of electric vehicles, e.g. lithium, copper and nickel. 
You may think these are random speculative investment cases, but each of 
them had significant breakthroughs with exploration. Chalice Mining, founded 
in 2005, had a 15-year wait for its exploration breakthrough after discovering 
  
92
Facts about the Australian mining industry 
•
Australia’s ore reserves and resources ranks 
first in iron ore and bauxite and second in 
gold and lead and third in cobalt, 
manganese, zinc and uranium 
•
Its mining industry is the largest sector, 
representing 10% of its GDP

nickel, copper and platinum group metals in its Julimar complex in the Avon 
region, western Australia. 
Core Lithium and Liontown Resources are focused on lithium and have 
completed their feasibility studies on their lithium deposits in northern and 
western Australia, respectively. Core Lithium expects to produce an average of 
173,000 tonnes per annum and will commence production in 2022, while 
Liontown plans to complete construction in Q4 2023 and begin production in 
Q2 2024. Liontown also secured a five-year term agreement with Tesla, LG 
Energy, and Ford as its partners.  
It may be tempting to begin speculating on current exploration companies, 
but among all four companies, none were valued above their IPO price in the 
pre-discovery phase, and investors waited years for any share price 
appreciation. Northern Star and Liontown Resources had fallen by more than 
-90% between their IPO and production confirmation.  
Other Australian outperformers 
There is more to Australian equities than the resources industry, and some 
companies did considerably better than the resources outperformers during 
the period. Another area Australia leads the world in is the gambling industry. 
Around 80% of Australian adults have gambled in the past years and 
collectively generate $242 billion (AUD) per year or roughly $11,000 (AUD) per 
person.  
Since the first legal casino in 1972, the domestic industry has steadily grown 
and has exported its casino innovations globally. Aristocrat Leisure was among 
these early exporters when it launched its five-reel slot machine in the 1950s 
and then exported it aggressively into Europe and the US. They have evolved 
many times, but their most recent business model evolution has created the 
most significant value; going mobile. Aristocrat was among the few pioneers 
with its Games Development Kit division and publisher acquisitions such as 
Product Madness, Plarium Global and Big Fish Games. The mobile gambling 
market is now expected to compound by 11% over the next eight years, and 
Aristocrat is among the largest companies.  
On the other hand, Jumbo Interactive had a very different story in the 
gambling industry. Jumbo was originally a software company that sold website 
  
93

designs in the 1990s during the internet bubble. Its acquisition of Jumbomall 
turned its focus to the lottery industry. Today, Jumbo manages Oz Lotteries, 
one of Australia’s leading lotto apps with over 2 million customers. Its app 
allows you to purchase tickets for several Australian lotto games, which is 
currently an $8.9 billion (AUD) market.  
Australian Healthcare  
The rest of the Australian outperformers related more closely to company-
specific themes than broader macro or industry-related themes. For example, 
three healthcare companies were solving different problems, operating in 
different markets and operational stages. Pro Medicus, which was among the 
best performing companies during the decade with a total return of 14,181%, 
acquired a radiology information software company, Visage Imaging, in 2009. 
The acquisition propelled Pro Medicus' expertise in the radiology software 
industry and expanded its client base into the US and Europe. Operating 
profit margins have remained above 40%, while earnings have compounded 
by 34% in the past five years. 
Imugene and PolyNovo, on the other hand, are less established healthcare 
companies. Imugene is a clinical-stage immune-oncology company exploring 
a range of treatments that seek to support the immune system of cancer 
patients, while PolyNovo makes the first commercially available Novosorb, 
Biodegradable Temporising Matrix (BTM), a synthetic, biodegradable device 
used in the management of trauma wounds, surgical wounds and pressure 
ulcers. While there has been lots of product and operational progress for both 
companies (Imugene recently started phase 2 trials for two candidates while 
PolyNovo became profitable for the first time in 2021), the journey has been 
far from smooth as both are still priced below their share price peak in 2004.  
  
New Zealand’s milk industry 
Outperformers: 1 company  
New Zealand had only one outperformer, The a2 Milk Company (a2 Milk), 
which returned 1,030% over the ten years. New Zealand is the top dairy 
exporter in the world, with an export value of $7.8 billion, accounting for 3% 
of its GDP. Milk has traditionally not been an area to find good returns as it is 
  
94

harder to differentiate milk brands than other beverage categories. But in 
recent years, the alternative milk segment has been an attractive area for 
investors as consumers seek alternatives to cow milk. Although still cow-
based, a2 Milk developed a patented formula containing just A2 milk rather 
than A1 and A2 proteins. The case for just A2 protein is attributed to its 
supposedly healthier and more digestible beta-casein protein. a2 Milk grew 
aggressively and compounded its earnings by 28% during the decade, but 
this aggressive growth halted last year. The Chinese daigou (personal 
shopper) channel had played a crucial role in this growth (40% of total sales) 
but became an issue as the clampdown on the daigou channel activity 
impacted a2 Milk’s distribution channel in mainland China.  
  
95

The Nordic Region 
Outperformers: 33 companies 
The Nordic region was a significant regional outperformer (33 companies) 
from a population, GDP and public market size. Sweden was among the top 
five countries in the subset, Denmark produced some of the best performing 
healthcare companies in biotech and medical devices, Norway bolstered its 
grip on the salmon industry thanks to both innovation and favourable pricing 
while Finland had two companies with global market leadership in their 
respective products. Was this just a timing and valuation occurrence or is there 
more to why some of the best companies come from the Nordic countries?  
If we look at the macro indicators, it is clear that the Nordic regions do many 
things well. Three of them are among the top ten countries in the Global 
Innovation Index (GII), four are among the countries with the best 20 
educational systems, all five feature among the seven happiest countries and 
all five are among the top 20 richest nations by GDP per capita. 
Outstanding macroeconomic characteristics is not enough to understand why 
the Nordic region particularly did well given their relatively smaller population 
and to have a better perspective of their outperformance, let's explore where 
the winners came from.  
Sweden 
Outperformers: 20 companies 
Sweden was the second biggest surprise for us, after India’s domination and 
was among the top five best performing countries during the decade. Sweden 
has a relatively large listed market; despite being a sixth of Germany’s GDP, 
there are more listed companies in Sweden than in Germany. That said, what 
matters is the quality of the companies. Two factors contributed to the quality 
of Swedish companies: innovation and global growth.  
Swedish Innovation 
Among the 20 companies from Sweden, six were from the information 
technology and the industrial sector, while five came from the healthcare 
  
96

sector. Sweden has long fostered 
innovation, entrepreneurship and 
c r e a t i v i t y. P r o g r a m m i n g i s 
introduced into the national 
curriculum as early as primary 
school, and students are often 
encouraged to engage in projects in 
an open-classroom layout. At the 
tertiary education level, innovation 
and research competency is a big 
focus for students across all fields.  
This early innovation and creativity focus explains why student-founders 
created some Swedish technology outperformers. HMS Networks (Hardware 
Meets Software), a diversified industrial internet of things company, was 
founded by Staffan Dahlström and Nicolas Hassbjer in 1988 and their idea 
initially started from a university project involving a technology that measures 
the thickness of paper. Both co-founders had a passion for electronics and set 
a goal of challenging how we operate industrial automation equipment and 
plants. Today, Staffan Dahlström still leads the group and has led HMS from its 
initial Anybus device success to other divisions such as Ewon, intesis and Ixxat. 
Another example is Vitec Software, a vertical software company that operates 
across the Nordic region was founded in 1985 by its current chairman, Lars 
Stenlund and former Vice President, Olov Sandberg. Lars and Olov realised 
property owners could benefit from measuring their energy consumption to 
boost efficiency and then built a program that could achieve this during their 
university time at Umeå University. Vitec was listed on the Nordic Growth 
Market 13 years later and began acquiring several software companies to 
strengthen its breadth of solutions.  
Youth entrepreneurship is not just a recent phenomenon in Sweden. Two other 
Swedish outperformers, Addtech and Lagercrantz Group, were both spinoffs 
from engineers Arvid Bergman and Fritz Beving’s company, Bergman & 
Beving, which was founded during their mid-20s in 1906, after noticing the 
market opportunity to import technologically advanced products into Sweden. 
Addtech and Lagercrantz Group now manage tens of smaller subsidiaries 
worldwide, bringing us to the next Swedish outperformers attribute, global 
growth.  
  
97
Facts about Swedish innovation 
•
Sweden is the second most innovative 
country in the world according to the 
Global Innovation Index 
•
Sweden has the highest R&D 
expenditure as a % of GDP in Europe 
•
Sweden has the ninth best education 
system in the world 

Global growth 
Innovation and a great product are not enough to build competitive 
companies. Companies need to compete at the global level and challenge 
themselves against international peers from sales to distribution, which are 
areas the Swedish outperformers have done well in. It is common for Swedish 
startups to benchmark against global peers even in their early days, as Invisio 
did 20 years ago when it was still a startup.  
The Malmö-based company started in Copenhagen with a focus on 
developing headsets for communication-based bone conduction technology. 
While the product was great, the consumer market was not as attractive as it 
required excess marketing and support costs. It later launched its digital 
hearing protection and communication system with multiple radios in 2009, 
and within months, it received orders from the American and European 
defence sectors. Although lumpy, Invisio’s revenue is ten times larger than in 
2012, thanks to its expansion of US defence and army orders, which is roughly 
half of total sales.  
Some also credit the government’s many initiatives that support companies 
due to its export-based economic goals. EKN is a Swedish Export Credit 
Agency that promotes Swedish exports by insuring the risk of non-payment in 
export transactions. This boosts the accessibility to markets that may seem 
difficult. The Swedish government also created regional export centres that 
help companies get in touch with the appropriate promotional and customer 
contact details within 24 hours.  
  
98
Images: CellaVision (left) DM1200 used in testing blood cells and Biotage (right) Selekt Automated Flash 
Purification System used in drug discovery. Both companies were among the Swedish healthcare 
outperformers. (company website) 

Other Swedish outperformers such as Biotage, CellaVision and Sectra also had 
international sales to countries like the US and Germany, which represented 
more than half of their total revenue, while those such as Hexatronic Group, 
which initially focused on the Swedish market, now has the US as a more 
significant market.  
Denmark 
Outperformers: 7 companies 
Denmark’s success was mainly driven by one sector, healthcare. On the 
Legatum Prosperity Index, Denmark has the best healthcare system in the 
world, and some of the best healthcare companies and innovations were 
created in Denmark. Some examples include Novo Nordisk, a crucial player in 
insulin, Coloplast, the first company to launch a ready-to-use catheter in 
urology, and the hearing aid trio, Demant, Widex A/S and Sivantos.  
Danish healthcare innovations have not stopped at these legacy companies. 
Four of the seven Danish outperformers have played critical but differing roles 
in global healthcare innovations. Among the four, two were particularly game-
changing in therapeutics, ChemoMetec and Genmab. Across the whole 
healthcare subset list, the best performer was ChemoMetec, with a total return 
of 20,053% and a compounded earnings growth of 62% per year over the 
decade. ChemoMetec is a maker of automated cell counting devices. These 
devices have been around for a while, but their applications were more limited 
to research purposes in cancer, clinical experiments and beverage production. 
Cell counting has now gone beyond just research applications and has 
become an essential part of immunotherapy; you can think of this as the cell 
as the drug or medicine. These cells often have to undergo a differentiation 
process and need to be counted, which has unlocked the most significant 
opportunity for ChemoMetec. Their NucleoCounters have become the gold 
standard in immunotherapy due to their precision, ease of monitoring and 
consistency.  
Another area that has experienced tremendous progress in oncology is 
antibody medicines and platform-based therapeutics. Since its spinoff from 
Medarex in 1999, Genmab has become a scientific leader in antibody 
technology and has developed a robust portfolio of proprietary technology 
  
99

platforms like the DuoBody and HexaBody, FCA-approved medicines 
incorporating Genmab’s technology such as Tivdak, used in cervical cancer, 
Darzalex in multiple myeloma (bone marrow cancer) and 37 other 
investigational drugs. Today, over 280 clinical trials applied antibodies are 
created by Genmab’s innovations. Genmab’s management has now set a goal 
to become a fully integrated biotech powerhouse with in-house 
commercialisation capabilities.  
The Danish healthcare companies, like the Swedish leaders, are aware they 
can not limit their research & development to just the Nordic market and are 
aggressive in tapping the best global talents. The Netherlands ranks among 
the top ten countries in clinical trials, and Genmab set its research centre right 
in the heart of its leading city for healthcare, Utrecht, in its scientific park.  
Among the non-healthcare companies, only one of three was not an 
innovation-led investment case, P/F Bakkafrost, which brings us to the 
Norwegian salmon industry.  
Norway 
Outperformers: 3 companies 
Although the Norwegian equities offer a lot more, the past decade had three 
companies from just one sector, the salmon industry. Norway is the largest 
producer of Atlantic Salmon, representing approximately half of global 
production (2.5 million tons per annum). The decade for salmon producers 
was a mixture of favourable pricing and volume growth due to the increased 
awareness  of their health benefits. The three Norwegian companies led by 
SalMar and P/F Bakkafrost in Denmark took advantage of this trend by 
increasing their capacity and supply through innovative methods to reduce 
costs. In the consumer staples case study, we explore some lessons on 
agriculture, barriers to entry, and the benefits of being the lowest-cost 
producer SalMar teaches us.  
  
100

Finland  
Outperformers: 3 companies  
Two of the three Finnish outperformers followed the Nordic model to 
innovation-led global market domination in their respective fields. A few years 
ago, Neste Oyj was just another integrated oil and gas company, but today, it 
is pretty different from your regular European oil majors like Shell, Total and 
BP. Neste leads the global renewable diesel and jet fuel market through its 
innovative NEXBTL technology. The Neste MY Renewable Diesel is a cleaner 
alternative to fossil diesel as both maintain similar chemical compositions. 
Neste was one of the few companies that did not grow their revenue during 
the decade but still returned more than 1,000%. Its more profitable 
renewables division, which now represents 76% of operating profits, 
expanded the group's operating profit margin from just 1.6% a decade ago to 
15% in 2021. Who says outperformers need to grow revenue aggressively?  
Revenio Group similarly conquered the global market in ophthalmology 
devices and software. Revenio Group was a totally different business years 
ago and was initially called Done Solutions and operated in the logistics 
software and documentation business. Insights from logistics shifted the group 
into the export-based Finnish market and began acquiring other companies 
with export products, one of which was iCare. iCare manufactures medical 
devices in retinal imaging, tonometers and intraocular pressure applications. 
Its rebound technology tonometers have a near 100% sub-industry market 
share, and new acquisitions like CentreVue and Oculo will increase the overall 
group's ophthalmic devices market share.  
The Nordic investment playbook   
The strategy for successful Nordic equities investing seems to be finding 
innovative growth-oriented companies with globally competitive products and 
services that can be exported. The drawback of this playbook is that one can’t 
separate Nordic companies from the global economy. In years when the 
global economy and stock market suffer, Nordic equities are likely to perform 
worse due to the export dependency model. The MSCI Nordic Countries 
index fell by -53.5% in 2008, worse than the MSCI World’s index decline of 
-40.7%. Ignoring these can lead to severe losses, especially with the US and 
  
101

German economies, two key trade partners most Nordic outperformers relied 
on for exports and revenue growth.   
On the other hand, this works vice-versa for the outperformers. It's common 
for markets to project the slowdown of the domestic economy into the stock 
market, leaving companies that rely more on international markets more 
undervalued. An example was the Swedish market in late 2011/2012 when its 
economy slowed, and its central bank cut the repo rate on three occasions. 
Situations like this create investment opportunities for Swedish outperformers 
like Mycronic, which has more than 80% of its revenue coming from Asia and 
the US, thus relying very little on the domestic and European economies.  
  
102

Europe G4 (France, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom) 
Outperformers: 43 companies 
Europe's largest four economies, also known as the G4, performed relatively 
well, given that three (France, Germany and the UK) outperformed relative to 
their number of publicly listed companies. From a macroeconomy and stock 
market performance view, this is a surprise given that Europe's growth 
declined in recent years, and its stock markets significantly underperformed 
the broader global benchmark. It's well documented that markets were 
particularly pessimistic about the future of Europe earlier in 2012 due to the 
European debt crisis. The pessimism was reflected in valuations as some 
companies were valued below their net cash position while many growth-
oriented and profitable companies were valued as low as 2-5x earnings going 
into 2012. Suppose the lessons on outperformers in Asia and the US were on 
growth, we learn the importance of valuations from Europe as each country 
provides many examples of hidden quality companies at very attractive 
multiples.  
France  
Outperformers: 10 companies  
France was among the European G4 economies that were overrepresented 
relative to its number of market listings and was also among the top 15 best 
performing economies from an outperformance lens. A particularly unique 
feature French equities had in contrast to the rest of the G4 economies was a 
strong market performance. The MSCI French index annualised 8.5%, only 
marginally underperforming the broader MSCI World, which was a significant 
margin relative to the rest of Europe.  
The biggest driver of the French market over the past ten years has been its 
concentration on its high-quality luxury brands. Among its ten largest 
companies, four luxury companies (LVMH, Hermès, Christian Dior and Kering) 
returned more than 15% per year. Unlike the rest of Europe's large caps, these 
companies delivered double-digit earnings growth with high margins.  
The benefits of the globally growing French retail market didn't end with these 
luxury brands, as two of the ten French outperformers were direct 
  
103

beneficiaries too. ID Logistics and Argan are logistics and warehouse groups 
that provide services to some of France's biggest luxury brands but with 
different models and strategies. Argan is the largest specialised French 
logistics real estate investment company with over 800,000 m² of premium 
warehouse properties. Argan was well positioned for the increasing demand 
for premium and client-tailored warehouse spaces in France and capitalised on 
the market boom by growing its warehouse locations near ports and in Paris. 
On the other hand, ID Logistics is positioned more as a warehouse operator 
and provides logistics services to various clients, with luxury retail clients like 
Chloé and Guerlain among them. ID Logistics was also more acquisitive and 
geographically more diversified as it operates in over 17 countries like Brazil, 
Indonesia and the US.  
IT services and software. A case study on valuations 
The French IT services and software market isn't particularly known for its 
competitiveness or size. France ranks well below Germany and the UK in its 
software market and is less than 10% of the US market. Compared to India or 
Vietnam, the French IT outsourcing and consulting companies often turn out 
to be less value for money for clients. Yet, four of its ten outperformers came 
from the IT software and services market. This shows that the domestic 
industry doesn't necessarily need to be globally leading to produce 
outperformers.  
One significant factor contributing to all four outperformers was their low 
valuations in 2012. Each company (Aubay, Esker, Teleperformance and 
Wavestone) were valued at or below 5x EV/EBIT in 2012 despite all except 
Aubay delivering double-digit operating profit margins and compounded 
earnings growth in the following years and over the period. If you ever 
needed some convincing that valuations can play a significant role in 
outperformance, look no further from Aubay.  
Aubay's growth wasn't fantastic during the decade; earnings compounded at 
just 12% per year. Yet, its share price returned 1,056% over the past ten years 
and 2,143% since its 2009 lows. The B2B software group, with over 7,300 
consultants, saw its market capitalisation decline by -75% after the financial 
crisis; its EV/EBIT multiples declined from 13x in 2007 to just 2x in 2009. 
Although earnings fell, the consulting group maintained operating margins of 
6% in 2009 (down from 9.4% in 2007). Aubay proactively decreased its debt 
  
104

levels, strengthened its balance sheet, and acquired smaller consultants like 
Aedian in 2013 and Norma4 and CastInfo in the following years, thus 
diversifying into new segments and broadening its solutions into higher 
demand applications like cloud computing support.  
This investment theme of searching for lowly rated opportunities in unlikely 
places wasn't just limited to France but was pretty typical across Europe. If the 
US and Asia offered growth, Europe offered cheap valuations and Italy 
provides another example.  
Italy  
Outperformers: 2 companies 
Italy has not been a great destination for investors searching for 
outperformance compared to the rest of Europe's G4 economies. Alongside 
Brazil, Italy was among the $1.5 trillion+ GDP countries that significantly 
underperformed relative to any metric. While the past decade has been one 
of the most challenging periods for the Italian economy, if we go back to the 
2002-2012 decade, a period its GDP rose by 5% per year, no current listed 
company was an outperformer during that period in the Italian stock market. 
There are a few reasons behind this underperformance relative to its peers. 
Like Mexico, Italy has a very small number of listings compared to its GDP. 
There are just 254 investable companies (market cap >$50 million) smaller 
than countries like Israel or Sweden.  
This macro pessimism is not all doom and gloom for investors seeking 
outperformers. One benefit is that given its market consensus Italy isn't the 
best country to search for growth opportunities, many investors neglect here, 
leaving actual compounders significantly undervalued. Take Reply S.p.A, a 
network of IT consulting services companies which has been profitable every 
year since 2000 and achieved double-digit EBIT margins every year but 2003 
and an annualised operating profit growth of 16% over the decade. Reply 
S.p.A was undervalued and neglected by the market because no one 
searched for IT services compounders in Italy. In 2012, it was valued at just 
2.5x EV/EBIT even though it compounded its earnings growth by 12% in the 
prior five years and achieved an 11% operating profit margin in 2011. In fact, 
Reply had consistently been below 5x EV/EBIT between 2007 and 2012. 
  
105

Investors who bothered to look at Italy's compounders may have spotted 
Reply and returned 2,796% or 40% annualised return over the decade.  
The lesson here is that one should not simply neglect companies listed in 
lesser growth economies like Italy despite its track record because other 
investors are thinking just like you. 
Germany  
Outperformers: 15 companies  
Europe’s largest economy was the third best European country behind 
Sweden and the UK, with 15 outperformers. Followers of German equities 
may be surprised by this, given its equity market performance in recent years. 
Among the European G4 economies, the MSCI Germany index was the only 
index negative on a three-year (-2.1% annualised) and five-year (-2.6% 
annualised) basis. From a fundamentals perspective, its largest companies like 
Siemens, SAP, Allianz and Bayer have each struggled to achieve much 
earnings growth in their respective business lines.  
Finding the German outperformers didn’t require investors to look too far 
from sectors and industries the German economy is competitive in, like 
industrials & industrial machinery, manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, 
engineering and construction. In these sectors, the outperformers were not 
the well-known conglomerates 
with market leadership but the 
much smaller, asset-lighter 
companies supporting these 
industries with more innovative 
a n d t e c h n o l o g y - d r i v e n 
solutions. Let’s examine two 
applications, construction & 
real estate and healthcare.  
Building and construction services 
While Germany has one of the lowest homeownership rates in Europe, its 
commercial real estate is the largest on the continent. In construction 
  
106
Facts about Germany’s IT software and services 
•
Germany has the highest R&D expenditure 
as a proportion of GDP in Europe 
•
Germany’s software market is the largest in 
Europe and accounts for approximately a 
quarter of the overall European software 
market by value

production value, Germany outpaced the second largest EU market, France, 
by €76 billion and the construction industry steadily compounded by 7% 
between 2016 and 2020. The best beneficiaries of the construction activity 
were not exactly the real estate developers but the enterprise software 
companies that provide critical solutions for industry stakeholders.  
An example is Nemetschek, a diversified construction software company. 
Nemetschek goes back to the 1960s when its founder and largest shareholder, 
Georg Nemetschek, founded the company to develop tools and programs for 
the construction industry. Nemetschek offers a broad range of services for 
various construction industry personnel. Architects can design and review 
projects in both 2D and 3D models on its Allplan software. If you are a site 
manager and might want to check and manage the construction site logistic 
plans, Nemetschek's Bluebeam Revu provides collaboration tools for this. 
Nemetschek has expanded both organically and through acquisitions in more 
recent years; recent acquisitions like Pixologic and Forger by its Maxon 
Computer subsidiary have further broadened its solutions beyond construction 
and into the creative, gaming and animation industries, which now accounts 
for 10% of the group's revenue.  
In the financing side of the construction and real estate industry, another 
German company, Hypoport, benefitted from the domestic sector's growth 
and scale. Hypoport is a complex and diversified financial group that plays an 
integral role in Germany's building product and mortgage financing market 
via its EUROPACE subsidiary. Many factors ranging from interest rates to life 
events, can make one turn to financing in the property market, but a key trend 
has been the steady increase in financing volume activity. EUROPACE has a 
third of Germany's mortgage financing volume, and Hypoport's other 
subsidiaries like FIO Systems in property sales solutions, Value AG in property 
valuation support and Dr. Klein Wowi, which provides an ERP system for the 
housing market, further enable technology-driven financing in the real estate 
industry. We explore its business model more in our financials case study.  
Health care support 
Germany tops the Europe healthcare market in many areas, from its 11.7% 
healthcare expenditure as a proportion of GDP to its 26% market share of 
Europe's overall medical devices market. But what was surprising is that none 
of its medical drugs or vaccine producers were among the outperformers. The 
  
107

four healthcare-related outperformers were companies that utilised 
technology to improve the "healthcare behind the scenes" areas like lab 
research.  
One of the problems generalists face in the biotech and pharmaceutical 
industry, especially at the clinical stage level, is the industry complexity and 
difficulty of spotting winners without deep industry knowledge. You know a 
theme or sector is set to grow and change how we do things, but the 
complexity makes it challenging to pick a clear winner.  
In these situations, platform-like companies that supply their products and 
services to every company within the industry provide a safer and, sometimes, 
more attractive investment opportunity. One German outperformer that 
proved this from an equipment lens was Sartorius, a supplier of laboratory 
instruments and consumables to various biopharmaceutical companies. In the 
downstream biopharmaceutical drug production segment, where clinical-stage 
companies might undertake lab tests from cell analysis to sample preparation, 
Sartorius solutions come in handy. Its ultrafiltration devices for concentration 
and buffer exchange and lab balances in weighing solutions are among the 
many products and applications they support its customers with. Sartorius has 
positioned itself as a critical partner in the fast-growing cell and gene therapy 
market and has also acquired many smaller complementary companies to 
further diversify and expand its solutions within the market.  
Some other "platform-like" companies are slightly more direct with their 
relationships, and Evotec provides a good example. Their business model is 
somewhat more complex, but we can sum it up as a drug discovery and 
research partner to several clinical-stage companies. Evotec has over 2,000 
scientists who partner with these companies, from the target validation stage 
to clinical testing and later FDA approval. In return, Evotec may receive fees or 
royalties from its 80+ co-owned assets. These fees often take three forms;  
•
€1-10 million upfront and other research payments (60% of projects) 
•
Up to €150 million from milestones per project (30% of projects) 
•
Up to 8% in royalties (10% of projects) 
One of its successful projects was its chronic kidney disease (CKD) 
therapeutics research partnership with Bayer, where it entered a five-year 
contract worth around €300 million in royalties. For investors, the platform 
  
108

model, like with Evotec, de-risks the binary outcome typically seen among 
clinical-stage companies by spreading the risk across various projects and with 
fewer upfront costs. Sometimes, the best investments occur in companies that 
do the capital allocation into other companies for you.  
United Kingdom 
Outperformers: 16 companies  
The UK was the second best-performing country in Europe behind Sweden 
and was also among the countries that outperformed relative to its number of 
listed companies. Compared to the rest of Europe, the UK has a large market 
per number of listings, but when weighed relative to other English-speaking 
developed economies like Australia and Canada or Asia's developed 
economies, the British stock market is smaller than you would think. South 
Korea's listed market has more than twice as many listed companies, while 
Canada is slightly bigger with 150 more listed companies.   
Like the rest of the G4 countries, the broader British stock market has not 
been attractive from a total return view due to the lack of growth among its 
largest companies. Like Germany, the UK's large-cap space consists of slow 
growth stalwarts that enjoyed record growth in the 1990s but have failed to 
achieve much in recent years. In the more recent decade, only two companies 
among its top 50 largest companies managed to grow their operating profits 
above 10%, while the average company across its top 100 largest grew by 
only 3.3% per year over the ten years.  
As we have already learned about global outperformance, large caps aren't 
the place to search for outperformance and in the UK, we broadly had two 
types of outperformers; the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) growth 
companies and the LSE turnarounds.  
The LSE AIM effect 
The UK created a smaller stock exchange to encourage smaller and faster-
growing companies to list publicly via its AIM, which has less strict listing 
requirements. AIM listings do not need any trading history or profitability, 
which explains why it has many listed oil and gas explorers (8.4% of the AIM 
  
109

listings). Two of the 11 AIM outperformers were oil and gas exploration 
companies; Serica Energy and Pantheon Resources and the former was one of 
the few exploration stage companies that successfully transitioned into 
production when its Erskine Field, Central North Sea gas project began 
production in 2015. Serica made back all its losses from exploration between 
2002 and 2020 (-£167 million or -$192 million) in 2021 when profits reached a 
record high of £247 million ($285 million).  
The other British outperformers were quite diversified, and excluding the asset 
managers, Impax and Liontrust, no two other companies came from the same 
industry. Both asset managers also accurately portray the LSE main market and 
AIM contrast. Impax, the founder-led sustainable economy specialist, 
launched in 1998 and was floated on the AIM in 2001. Liontrust, on the other 
hand, is a more diversified and legacy asset manager with over 60+ thematic 
funds from its focused geographic funds to its size and smaller caps funds.  
Liontrust had accumulated losses for four years between 2010 and 2013, and 
its valuations had fallen so low that its net cash had become bigger than its 
market cap on two occasions. The market valued Impax more richly thanks to 
its faster growth, more robust balance sheet, consistency and higher 
profitability. While Impax (1,625%) performed better from a share price view, 
Liontrust (1,051%) successfully turned its operations around, with its improved 
performance orientation, from its fees to incentives being the most impactful 
change. Liontrust also invested in other asset managers and currently has a 7% 
stake in Impax.  
Below cash  
Being valued below cash is an unusual situation for listed companies, and 
Liontrust wasn't the only British outperformer that saw its market capitalisation 
fall below its net cash position. Another example was the AIM listed, Jet2 plc 
(formerly called Dart Group). The airline industry is not the most obvious place 
to search for outperformers given its low margin economics and cyclicality, but 
when an airline falls below its cash position with an almost debt-free balance 
sheet position, it's probably worth checking out.  
Jet2 was far from a failing business. Its recorded profits every year apart from 
the pandemic years and was one of the industry's lowest cost operators as 
operating margins reached a high of 8.2% in 2019. Jet2's competitive 
  
110

advantage came from focusing on its core customers, leisure passengers from 
Northern England. Jet2 understood what truly mattered to them, like their 
leisure destinations and packaged experiences they may want in each city and 
provided them with the lowest cost possible and appropriately bundled 
holiday packages. Focusing on the leisure market allowed Jet2 to fully tailor its 
services and airline features, thus reducing costs in areas other airlines couldn't 
remove. Its ten UK bases only fly to 21 countries, which tend to be top British 
tourist destinations like Spain, Greece and major cities in continental Europe. 
The airline has grown to become the UK's third largest scheduled airline, with 
revenue and operating profits growing seven and nine-fold between 
2009-2019. Competitive advantages can sometimes be formed when 
management is willing to sacrifice a larger market to tailor services better to a 
smaller customer segment.   
Rest of Europe 
Outperformers: 16 companies 
The rest of Europe broadly followed similar trends with Europe’s G4; good 
companies at very attractive prices. This made us further explore why 
European equities were so cheap earlier in 2012. The low valuations were due 
to the European debt crisis led by the Greek economy. The Greek 
outperformers provide some insights into distressed investing but first, let’s 
review the broader climate.  
  
111
Images: Like the rest of Europe, the UK was filled with successful turnarounds and growth-oriented 
companies with extremely low valuations. Jet2 plc (left) traded below cash while Games Workshop, the 
miniature maker of Warhammer games, saw its valuations decline despite its turnaround improvements. 
(company website and retail Gazette)

Greece 
Outperformers: 4 companies 
Greece was an unlikely feature among the subset country group. Despite 
having the smallest public market among the top 20 countries, Greece 
produced four outperformers, the sixth best performing European country. 
The performance was solely due to the Greek crisis, which started in late 2009 
when its budget deficit increased and further scepticism occurred with its 
budget compliance and data credibility. The Athens Stock Exchange (ATSE) 
had plunged by -45% between 2009 and 2012, after already declining by 
-45% between 2007 and 2009.  
The decline was reflected across the Greek outperformers too. Greece’s 
largest integrated telecommunication company, Hellenic Telecommunications, 
and Quest Holdings, a diversified telecommunication group, shares fell by 
-92% and -77%, respectively, between 2007 and 2012. The Terna group 
companies led by Peristeris Georgios, GEK Terna Real Estate and Terna 
Energy declined by -96% and -84%, respectively. Valuations rapidly crashed, 
and some like Quest Holdings and Terna Real Estate had fallen to less than 
0.15x P/BV. The path to their outperformance was less about growth and more 
about survival and cheap valuations, which leads us to a different lesson, 
distressed equity investing.  
Distressed equity investing  
Outperformers come in all forms, but one of the rarest tends to be distressed 
companies where markets might project some insolvency risks into valuations. 
For investors, the balance sheet and cash flow statements become more 
valuable as they paint a better picture of a company’s insolvency risk. The 
Greek companies all had their credit profiles downgraded by the rating 
agencies and news headlines portrayed only bleak messages regardless of 
how valuable assets were.  
The distressed equity investing playbook requires one to prioritise factors that 
address the insolvency risk. Some questions that may lead you here include: 
•
Is the company profitable? Do they have enough cash to survive the next 
two years? 
  
112

•
What is the overall debt profile? Which interest payments are due within 
the next three years?  
•
Does its balance sheet have non-core assets it can sell? What valuations 
might they fetch? 
•
What is management’s intention? Who are its major shareholders?  
•
Is the margin of safety big enough? (Less than 50% of intrinsic valuation)  
Hellenic Telecommunications - A distressed investment case study  
 
Hellenic Telecommunications (OTE Group) was one of the state-owned assets 
Greece had partially privatised, and during the financial crisis, the Greek 
government sold an additional stake to Germany’s Deutsche Telekom to free 
up cash as part of its bailout obligations. The group’s two primary assets are 
Cosmote, Greece’s largest telecommunication company covering fixed, 
broadband and mobile telephony and OTEGlobe, a backbone network 
operator. Between 2007 and 2012, Cosmote maintained a market share 
between 40-50%, while rivals like Wind and Vodafone made up the big three.  
For the first section in distressed investing, we want to understand the 
profitability and cash position of the company. OTE Group had maintained a 
cash position of at least €900 million between 2008 and 2012 year-end, which 
was 70% of its market capitalisation at the end of 2011. Its EBT (earnings 
before tax) was also positive throughout the period, with its EBT margin only 
falling below 10% once in 2011. Well-run integrated telecoms with market 
  
113
Images: The headlines during the Greek debt crisis were negative and investors were worried if Hellenic 
Telecommunications would survive. (The Guardian and Bloomberg)

leadership tend to be very profitable, but the issue for them is usually growth 
and debt. With voice and messaging revenue declining, telecoms like OTE 
Group had to rely on internet services revenue for growth, but even this 
market was under pricing pressure, and in 2012, CAPEX was set to increase 
due to Cosmote’s 4G enrolment in cities like Athens and Thessaloniki.   
Debt 
OTE Group’s debt level was a course for concern. Debt/capital had increased 
from 50% in 2006 to 74% in 2009 before declining to 56% by 2013. Investors 
in the telecommunication industry would have realised this wasn’t unique to 
OTE Group. European peers like BT Group, Telekom Austria, Telefónica, 
Koninklijke KPN and Bulgarian Telecommunications all had a higher debt/
capital than OTE Group. Further research into OTE Group’s debt profile would 
show that 91% of its borrowings were in fixed interest rates. From a sensitivity 
view, a 1% increase/decrease in interest rates only impacted its profit before 
tax by €5.2 million, which was immaterial to its €508 million EBT in 2010 and 
€190 million. The weighted average interest rate of its short-term debt 
averaged between 2.8% to 7.5% in 2009-2012, which spooked markets when 
Fitch downgraded the company from ‘BB’ to ‘B-‘. Further research would have 
shown its largest shareholder, Deutsche Telekom, had provided additional 
revolving credit facilities with covenants capped at the group’s net debt/
EBITDA at 3x.  
Deutsche Telekom had increased its support to OTE Group during the crisis, 
which provided the group with additional liquidity and financial flexibility. OTE 
Group's ownership of foreign assets like Telekom Romania provided the Greek 
group with non-core assets it could potentially sell if needed. Telekom 
Romania made €179 million in EBITDA in 2010 and selling for 5x EBITDA 
could have fetched the group an additional €483 million for its 54% stake in 
Telekom Romania. OTE Group survived the Greek crisis without needing to 
sell its stake during the period, and investors who had paid just 6x EV/EBIT or 
0.4x P/BV for its shares in 2012 gained a return of 1,261% over the following 
years.  
  
114

  
115
€ m
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
Cash
1,564
904
1,017
1,037
1,172
Accounts 
Receivable
1,220
1,179
1,036
954
848
Other 
Receivables
23
12
22
52
48
Notes 
Receivable
16
17
18
19
16
Total 
Receivables
1,258
1,207
1,077
1,025
913
€ m
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
Long-Term 
Debt
5,410
5,386
3,211
4,139
2,635
Unearned 
Revenue, 
Non-Current
18
8
-
44
38
Pension & 
Other Post-
Retire. 
Benefits
367
427
337
285
289
Def. Tax 
Liability, Non-
Curr.
117
118
66
93
84
Other Non-
Current 
Liabilities
355
421
345
315
264
Total 
Liabilities
9,252
8,437
7,885
7,334
6,377
€ m
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
Accounts 
Payable
944
813
769
750
785
Accrued Exp.
643
612
562
531
486
Short-term 
Borrowings
5
3
6
2
1
Curr. Port. of 
LT Debt
633
33
2,083
761
1,414
Curr. Income 
Taxes Payable
58
133
71
16
32
Unearned 
Revenue, 
228
257
249
191
175
Other Current 
Liabilities
475
227
187
208
175
Total Current 
Liabilities
2,986
2,078
3,926
2,458
3,067
€ m
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
Cash from 
Ops.
1,758
1,418
1,110
1,208
1,167
Capital 
Expenditure
(964)
(891)
(751)
(717)
(508)
Cash 
Acquisitions
(849)
(246)
(10)
(11)
-
Divestitures
24
165
-
-
380
Invest. in 
Marketable &
(91)
104
14
(342)
341
Other Investing 
Activities
76
(100)
4
28
(73)
Cash from 
Investing
(1,806)
(959)
(734)
(1,031)
150
A snapshot of OTE Group's long term liabilities. 
Management performed a commendable job in 
aggressively reducing the group's long-term 
debt.
A snapshot of OTE Group's cash flow 
statement. It's crucial to consider divesture 
opportunities that can provide additional cash.  
A snapshot of OTE Group's current assets. Its 
cash position could cover interest payments 
over the short term.
A snapshot of OTE Group's current liabilities. A 
deeper analysis is needed to understand the 
real picture of a company's short term debt 
from floating/fixed rates, debt covenants, 
refinancing terms and due dates. 
€ m

Outperformance - The industry lens 
The geographic lens to outperformance has provided an in-depth analytical 
view of outperformers, but our research wouldn't be complete without 
understanding outperformers from an industry lens. In the table below, we 
grouped all 446 outperformers into the 11 industries as defined by the Global 
Industry Classification Standard (GICS) and sorted them in descending order 
of the number of outperformers. On the right-hand side, we included a 
column which shows each sector's representation relative to its market listing 
size (number of companies).   
 
  
116
Industry 
Number of 
companies
Representation 
in subset 
group 
Market listing 
representation
*
Information 
technology
115
25.8%
12.7%
Industrials
68
15.2%
17.6%
Healthcare
63
14.1%
9.4%
Materials
60
13.5%
11.0%
Consumer 
discretionary
47
10.5%
11.3%
Financials
27
6.1%
12.6%
Consumer staples 
21
4.7%
6.5%
Communication 
services
19
4.3%
4.4%
Real estate
13
2.9%
7.1%
Energy
8
1.8%
3.8%
Utilities
5
1.1%
3.6%
Market listing representation: The percentage of companies with a market capitalisation above $550 
listed from an industry. 

The three sectors highlighted in green (information technology, healthcare and 
materials) were industries that outperformed relative to the representation in 
the public market. Information technology was the best performing sector as it 
represented 25.8% of the subset group with 115 outperformers but had 12.7% 
of the overall market listing. This shouldn't automatically lead to a conclusion 
on which sector is the best in finding outperformers, and as we will explore, 
cycles, valuations and market sentiment also play a significant role in 
determining outperformers. 
We also examine the sub-segments, i.e. information technology (software, IT 
services, hardware and semiconductors) and industrials (capital goods, 
commercial and professional services and transportation) and review how each 
contributed to producing outperformers within their industry. In some cases, 
consumer trends, innovation and other structural shifts significantly impacted 
which sub-segments outperformed. An example is semiconductors which had 
only one outperformer between 2002-2012 but 44 companies between 
2012-2022. In situations like this, there tends to be a bigger picture which 
must be understood before one makes individual stock pick decisions.  
To aid our understanding of outperformers, we included case studies from 
each industry, providing different lessons on the path to great returns. For 
example, Trex and Adobe portrayed two different types of turnarounds that 
required differing solutions. ChemoMetec and Lasertec both returned more 
than 10,000% over the decade, and each portrays the benefits of industry 
knowledge when searching for outperformers. Companies like MSCI and 
Texas Pacific Land Corporation have similar business models, despite being in 
very different sectors, and each provides some lessons on investing in high-
margin "industry toll collectors”. 
Some key questions we answer during the industry lens research are; 
1.
Why did the cyclical semiconductor industry go from producing only one 
outperformer between 2002-2012 to having 44 outperformers between 
2012-2022? 
2.
Why was utilities the least attractive industry and what did all utilities 
outperformers have in common? 
3.
Why was only one traditional bank present within the opportunities in 
financials and what could financials possibly offer an investor beyond 
banks and insurers?  
  
117

4.
Why have Israeli real estate companies dominated the industry over the 
period? 
5.
Why did the cyclical materials industry surprise our expectations in both 
the 2002-2012 and 2012-2022 periods?  
6.
How stalwarts like Sony Group and Airports of Thailand produced returns 
of more than 1,000% despite the slower relative growth  
7.
Did software really “eat the world” from an outperformance lens?  
8.
What companies like Adobe, Neste Oyj and Trex teach us about 
turnaround investing  
9.
What to do when the market presents high-quality companies like Nihon 
M&A, ANTA Sports and Reply S.p.A at very low valuations  
10. Why the industrials sector produces some of the best unlikely 
compounders 
  
118
14%
26%
5%
6%
5%
10%
3%
1%
15%
13%
2%
Energy 
Materials
Industrials 
Utilities 
Real estate
Consumer discretionary 
Consumer staples 
Financials 
Communication services
Information technology
Healthcare

The case study list by industry 
•
Energy (Neste Oyj and Texas Pacific Land Corporation) 
•
Materials (SRF Limited, Ganfeng Limited and Treatt) 
•
Industrials (Trex, Airports of Thailand and Nihon M&A Center) 
•
Utilities (Terna Energy) 
•
Real estate (Argan SA and Phat Dat Real Estate) 
•
Consumer discretionary (ANTA Sports and Tesla) 
•
Consumer staples (Salmar and Britannia Industries) 
•
Financials (MSCI and Hypoport) 
•
Communication services (JYP Entertainment and CD Projekt) 
•
Information technology (Reply S.p.A, Adobe, HMS Networks and Lasertec) 
•
Healthcare (ChemoMetec, M3 and Abbott India) 
  
119

Energy  
Outperformers: 8 companies 
The energy sector was among the industries with the least companies in the 
subset list; only utilities performed worse than energy. The energy industry 
also underperformed relative to the market listing - energy companies made 
up 3.8% of the global listed market but were just 1.8% of the subset group.  
Energy, like most commodities, is cyclical and largely dependent on the price 
of the underlying commodity, whether oil, gas or coal. These commodities are 
susceptible to exogenous shocks, i.e. the Arab spring in the early 2010s, the 
growth of China, the growing competitiveness of the hydraulic fracturing 
process in the US, and the Covid-19 pandemic. Oil prices sometimes affect 
the volume of exploration and production projects; exploration players will 
often use the oil and gas prices to determine the capital expenditure on 
current projects. The OPEC (Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries) 
nations also adjust volume output in accordance with pricing goals.   
The volatile energy prices ultimately impact the volatility of their share prices, 
and if we examine the number of companies that returned 1,000% or more 
after hitting their ten-year share price 
lows during the decade, 88 energy 
companies (7.9% of this sample 
size) accomplished this. This 
volatility shows why energy 
companies do not make great 
" b u y - h o l d - a n d - f o r g e t " 
investments.  
Sector split 
We split the energy industry into 
seven sub-segments, but only 
three sectors had outperformers; 
•
Exploration and production (5 
companies) 
•
Refining and marketing (2 
  
120
13%
25%
63%
Exploration and Production 
Reﬁning and Marketing 
Storage and Transportation
Coal and Consumable fuels
Integrated Oil and Gas 
Oil and Gas Drilling 
Oil and Gas Equipment

companies) 
•
Storage and transportation (1 company) 
Segments like oil and gas drilling, oil and gas equipment, integrated oil and 
gas and coal did not have any outperformers.  
Exploration & production is often seen as the riskiest segment of the energy 
supply chain, with many losers and only a handful of winners, hence why most 
outperformers were within this segment. Exploration drilling volumes also 
correlate strongly with the oil price. Between 2015 and 2016, following the oil 
price crash, global exploration drilling nosedived from 3,500 exploration & 
appraisal wells annually in 2012 to 1,600 in 2016.  
For the producers, potential earnings and oil discoveries are similarly cyclical. 
Only one of the three pure-play exploration and production companies, Mari 
Petroleum Limited, a Pakistani operator that produces over 100,000 barrels of 
oil per day, remained profitable every year since its IPO in 1994, a record even 
oil majors like BP, Shell and Chevron did not achieve. Mari Petroleum also has 
a 70% success rate in its exploration projects compared to the international 
industry global average of 14%. 
Other exploration-focused companies like Headwater Exploration, the 
Canadian natural gas company operating in the western Canadian 
Sedimentary Basin and onshore in New Brunswick, saw their operating profits 
fluctuate evenly between profitable and loss-making years. 
While luck plays a significant role in discovering oil and gas fields, factors like 
experience, operational prowess, deal and incentive structure and the horizon/
culture of its people also determine the level of success. Another factor 
contributing to some success stories within the energy industry is the ability to 
reinvent one's operations for the future, and we examine how Neste Oyj 
created value for shareholders with a new product. Geography also plays a 
vital role for some in achieving long-term success, and here, we look into 
Texas Pacific Land Corporation. 
  
121

Energy case study 
Neste Oyj - A Finnish turnaround story 
Return: 1,625% 
Neste Oyj's history goes back to the 1940s when the Finnish government 
began taking steps to ensure Finland had sustainable access to refined fuels. 
Back then, Finland did not have an oil industry, and its first oil refinery was only 
completed in 1957 (Naantali) and the second in 1965 (Porvoo). Neste later 
expanded into natural gas and retail services with branded petrol stations 
across Finland. After becoming a listed company in 1995, it merged with 
Imatran Voima, the state-owned electricity company but spun off as Neste Oil. 
    
What separates Neste from other oil refiners is its NEXBTL refining technology 
which turns fats into molecules that replace fossil raw materials. The 
technology is critical to its renewable diesel arm, which services fleets and 
municipalities seeking to reduce CO2 emissions. The Neste MY Renewable 
Diesel results in 90% less greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions over the fuel's life 
cycle. Neste expanded its renewables division into new applications like 
plastics made entirely from recycled materials, sustainable aviation fuel and 
other renewable chemicals like paints and lubricants. Today, Neste is the 
largest producer of renewable diesel and renewable jet fuel in the world.  
Investment Case 
Neste's investment case was not easy for investors to spot. A stock screen of 
Neste would show no revenue growth during the ten years. Its €13.6 billion 
  
122
Image: A picture of Neste’s plant (left) and a branded Neste oil station (right). Neste 
has disposed some international stations in Poland and Russia in more recent years. 
(Neste’s website)

revenue in 2021 was lower than the revenue figures in 2011, €14.2 billion. The 
investment case was certainly not a growth story in volume but a turnaround 
driven first by a new product and then macro factors.  
Turnarounds sometimes require businesses to take two steps backwards to go 
forward. For Neste, this was shifting its focus from just refining oil to the 
opportunity in renewable diesel. As oil product profits decreased during the 
decade, its renewables arm accelerated. By 2016, the renewable products 
segment brought more earnings than the refined oil division despite only 
accounting for 23% of revenue. Management also announced its intention to 
rename the firm Neste Oyj from Neste Oil, further communicating this 
strategy of becoming more than a fossil fuel refiner. 
Exports of its renewable diesel also expanded beyond just Finnish and 
European clients; North American clients now represent a third of revenue 
from less than 10% in 2011. Utilisation rates of the renewable diesel plants 
also improved over the years, and Neste invested in better vegetable oil and 
feedstock mix.  
Macroeconomic factors also played a significant role for Neste. Government 
initiatives to reduce carbon intensity like the California Low Carbon Fuel 
Standard (LCFS), the US Blenders' Tax Credit and the 7% cap on EU crop-
based biofuels supported Neste customers switch to renewable diesel.  
Operating margins improved from fluctuating between 1.2% and 3.7% 
between 2008 and 2014 to an all-time high of 14.8% in 2021. As of 2021, the 
renewable division generated an operating margin of 21% compared to the 
0.9% margin in its oil products division.  
The operating profit margin expansion from its renewables arm and the 
increase in investor appetite for renewable companies via ESG ETFs and 
active funds expanded the EV/Revenue multiple from just 0.2x (EV/EBIT 10.9x) 
to 2.9x (EV/EBIT 19.9x) by 2021.  
Lesson  
Although Neste was not a revenue growth story, there was profitability growth 
during the period driven by the expansion of its more profitable renewables 
division, improving government policy to support renewable fuels, the 
  
123

expansion in relative valuation metrics and increased investment appetite for 
renewable companies.  
The removal of 'oil' in Neste's name was not just a marketing ploy but an 
actual shift in management focus. For investors, this could have been a 
turnaround signal to re-assess the opportunity Neste presents. Investors who 
waited a year after the name change and for Neste to cement its position as 
the largest renewable diesel producer would still have seen a 435% return 
(32% CAGR) in the following six years. Like many turnaround opportunities we 
assessed, investors did not need to predict success before profitability arrived 
but needed a good understanding of the business drivers, such as the 
NEXBTL potential economics versus fossil fuel and how government policy 
could influence Neste’s success.  
  
124
Notice how volatile Neste’s earnings are. This is common for cyclical businesses, and it is 
important you factor these in when valuing energy companies.  
Although there was no revenue growth between 2012 and 2021, operating income grew 
sixfold thanks to the better economics in its renewable division.  
EV/Rev
0.29x
0.34x
0.46x
0.87x
1.15x
1.34x
1.39x
1.73x
4.05x
2.85x
EV/EBIT
29.0x
12.98x
19.89x
29.61x
9.75x
12.63x
15.31x
16.00x
25.67x
19.93x
€ m
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Revenue
16,407
15,554
13,069
9,070
9,408
11,732
13,466
14,362
10,357
13,631
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
14,857
14,042
12,111
7,587
7,381
9,579
11,164
10,867
7,970
10,349
Gross 
Profit
1,550
1,512
958
1,483
2,027
2,153
2,302
3,495
2,387
3,282
Op. 
costs
1,286
938
862
896
925
986
1,163
1,276
1,327
1,262
EBIT
264
574
96
587
1,102
1,167
1,139
2,219
1,060
2,020
EBIT 
Margin
1.6%
3.7%
0.7%
6.5%
11.7%
9.9%
8.5%
15.5%
10.2%
14.8%

Texas Paciﬁc Land Corporation - An oil toll collector 
Total return: 2,637% 
Although Texas Pacific Land Corporation (TPL) is listed in the oil and gas 
exploration and production sub-industry, TPL is far from your regular 
exploration company. Its history goes back to the 1880s, when it was created 
through a federal charter that provided a mandate to build a transcontinental 
railroad from Texas to California. It never completed the entire rail line but was 
entitled to 3.5 million acres of land in Texas. The gusher age, a period when 
large petroleum reserves were discovered in Texas, was pivotal for the trust. 
By 1920, its first oil pipeline was built in the Permian Basin, and over the next 
decade, Texas' role in US oil production significantly grew.  
Today, TPL operates a (1) land resource management (70% of revenue) and a 
(2) water services and operations (30% of revenue) segment. TPL generates 
revenue from different stages of the oil and gas development value chain. It 
provides sourced and treated water for a fixed fee during drilling, while during 
production, it receives oil and gas royalty interests for its land. It also 
generates revenue from pipelines, power lines, utility easements, and other 
midstream infrastructure projects across its 19 counties.  
Investment Case 
With 880,000 acres of land in West Texas, TPL is positioned as the 'toll 
collector' in the Texas oil industry. For the land and resource management 
segment, TPL has no competitor on 
its land, while its land in the Permian 
Basin gives the corporation a unique 
position for operators. Significant 
customers include oil majors like 
Chevron, ConocoPhillips and 
Occidental Petroleum. These three 
represent 41% of TPL's total 
revenue.  
  
Its business model is not seasonal, 
but the value of its royalties 
depends on oil and gas pricing and 
  
125
Image: Pumpjacks operating on oil wells in 
the Permian Basin. (Daniel Acker/Bloomberg)

drilling activity. US field production declined between 1970 and 2011 as major 
US states became less globally competitive (the discovery of oil in Alaska 
drove some output during that period). The advancements in the hydraulic 
fracturing process in the late 2000s transformed US oil and gas volumes. As a 
result of this renewed activity in Texas, TPL grew revenue and profits by more 
than 12-fold during the decade.  
In terms of operating costs, TPL has very low CAPEX requirements (less than 
10% of revenue), and its operating profit margin has consistently been above 
70% since 2000. Only six non-REITS or financial services companies were more 
profitable than TPL in 2021 in the global mid-cap and large-cap segments. 
The benefit of TPL's high margin and debt-free balance sheet is that TPL can 
also pay good dividends and buy back many outstanding shares. TPL has 
purchased its shares every year except in 2003 and 2020 since 1993, with total 
shares outstanding declining by more than 50%. 
From a multiples view, TPL never looked cheap. EV/Revenue averaged 18x 
while EV/EBIT averaged 21x. But these multiples are well justified given its 
profitability, monopoly, and impressive growth. 
Lesson 
In hindsight, the Texas oil boom of the past decade benefitted TPL. But even 
in the decade before 2012, TPL returned 590% (22% CAGR). TPL's business 
model is similar to many internet platforms, where it takes a share of 
customers' success. With even smaller operating costs than its internet 
platform peers, TPL's business model is more attractive. A benefit of big profit 
margins, as in TPL, is that management can pay dividends or buy back shares, 
as TPL did, providing additional value to shareholders. 
TPL also shows the results of an open-minded investment approach. While the 
energy industry is not the most attractive place to search for stable and high-
quality businesses, TPL has shown desirable qualities for a long-term 
compounder. 'Quality investors' would have screened out cyclical or low-
margin industries like energy, removing TPL from their potential investments 
despite its even more favourable economics than almost traditional quality 
companies.  
  
126

 
  
127
TPL’s balance sheet was extremely healthy while operating margins ranged between 
81% and 94% between 2013 and 2021.  
TPL doesn’t need debt or excess CAPEX to manage operations which is unusual for 
the energy sector. 
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
EBIT 
Margin 
93.7%
93.1%
96.3%
95.8%
94.1%
87.1%
81.5%
71.9%
81.9%
Debt/
Capital
-
-
-
-
-
-
0.7%
0.4%
0.2%
Revenue 
Growth
34.6%
28.8%
41.5%
(16.0%)
134.9%
94.5%
63.6%
(38.3%)
49.0%
EBIT 
Growth
36.9%
28.1%
46.4%
(16.5%)
130.6%
80.0%
53.2%
(45.6%)
69.8%

Materials  
Outperformers: 60 companies  
The most surprising industry relative to our initial hypothesis was the materials 
industry, representing 14% of the subset group. Despite the cyclicality in 
commodity prices, from metals to the chemical sectors, the materials industry 
produced an impressive number of companies in the subset group. We initially 
attributed this mainly to the super cycle the mining industry experienced in 
recent years. However, between 2002 and 2012, 18% (54 of 300 companies) 
that returned 1,000% and are still listed today were from the materials 
industry, again showing a high percentage of the top performing companies 
come from the materials industry. 
Within materials, 60% of the 
opportunities were from the 
chemicals segments, while metals and 
mining was the second largest 
segment at 30% of the industry. Only 
four of the 36 chemicals companies 
were non-Asian companies. 20 of the 
32 Asian companies were Indian, with 
Alkyl Amines Chemicals Limited, an 
Indian producer of amine and amine 
derivatives for the pharmaceutical and 
agrochemical industries being the 
standout performer, returning 
13,549% during the period.    
In metals and mining, mining-rich countries such as Australia, Canada and 
Russia produced most of these companies, as expected. A few companies 
benefitted from the rise of electric vehicles via their ownership and 
development of critical metals like lithium, cobalt and nickel. One was the 
Canadian lithium miner, Frontier Lithium, which recently discovered lithium 
deposits in its PAK projects with a projected lifetime revenue of up to $8.5 
billion (CAD).  
Press Metal Aluminium in Malaysia and Century Iron and Steel in Taiwan were 
some of the few exceptions. Rather than expanding into new materials, both 
  
128
2%
30%
8%
60%
Chemicals
Construction Materials 
Metals and Mining 
Paper and Forest Products
Containers and Packaging 

companies focused solely on their respective metals and other value-added 
derivatives, which allowed them to earn higher margins. Beyond the two key 
materials segments (chemicals and metals and mining), there were six other 
companies, with all but one company from Asia.  
Only four of the 60 materials companies had a market capitalisation above $1 
billion in 2012, which emphasises the importance of the law of small numbers 
in the materials industry. From an industry perspective, there are two main 
types of companies that outperform in the materials industry; (1) companies 
that focus broadly on one material but expand by growing into derivative 
products and (2) companies that expand by entering entirely different 
materials.  
The former group required companies to have a high-quality focus on 
research and development, customer needs awareness and product 
application expansion. As we will show in the case studies below, innovation 
played a key role for these companies.  
The latter segment required exceptional capital allocators who knew how to 
manage debt and cash effectively for future acquisitions and were patient 
enough to wait for the imminent downturn in the materials cycle. Afrimat, the 
South African construction company’s well-timed expansion into the iron ore 
industry just as iron ore prices fell in 2015, was the main reason for its 
outperformance relative to peers.  
For case studies, we examine SRF Limited, a diversified Indian materials 
group, Ganfeng Lithium, a Chinese founder-led integrated lithium group and 
Treatt, a British turnaround story with a 100+ year heritage in the natural 
extracts and fragrance industry.  
  
129

Materials case study  
SRF Limited: An Indian diversiﬁed chemicals group 
Return: 5,754%  
With India representing 25 of the 60 materials subset group, it is important we 
explore the major Indian companies and understand their economics, growth 
factors, operational models and management culture.  
Shri Ram Fibre’s (SRF Limited) history goes back to its parent company, Delhi 
Cloth & General Mills, one of India's largest conglomerates founded by Lala 
Sri Ram in the 1880s and operated mainly in the textile industry. In the early 
1970s, SRF spun off and focused on manufacturing nylon tyre cord fabrics. In 
1990, the group began diversifying beyond technical textiles into chemical 
products like refrigerants, chloromethanes and pharmaceutical propellants. 
 
Today, SRF maintains its founding-
family leadership with the Arun Bharat 
Ram family via the parent company, 
K A M A H o l d i n g s . A l t h o u g h 
concentrated mainly in India, SRF also 
has plants in Thailand, South Africa 
and Hungary. The company is 
grouped into three core segments:  
1.
Technical Textiles (15% of revenue) 
2.
Chemicals & Polymers (43% of 
revenue) 
3.
Packaging Films (39% of revenue) 
4.
Others (3% of revenue) 
Investment Case 
Between 2010 and 2014 (March-end FY), SRF's financial performance was 
lacklustre, and its share price only appreciated by 29% during that period. 
Operating profit margins declined from 19.6% in 2010 to 7.6% in 2014, while 
earnings declined by 38% during the same period.  
  
130
3%
39%
43%
15%
Technical Textiles
Chemical & Polymers
Packaging Films
Others

During downturns in cyclical industries, we first need to identify if the issues 
are either macro, i.e. supply shocks like a pandemic or micro and company-
specific, i.e. worsening utilisation rates, deteriorating cost structure or losses in 
customer contracts. For SRF between 2010 and 2014, most of its struggles 
were macro-induced factors. For example, refrigerants used in air-conditioning 
suffered from slower sales in air-conditioners and automobiles in India (auto 
sales fell 8% in 2013), the coated and laminated fabrics saw pricing pressure 
with the entry of Chinese players into the market while the South African 
division of its belting fabrics suffered from poor activity in its mining 
customers. 
Reducing its reliance on lower-margin technical textile operations was vital to 
restoring growth, and the division had accounted for just over 50% of its total 
revenue in 2012. By 2022 FY, technical textile represented less than 20% of 
total revenue and profits.  
Chemicals and Packaging Film divisions  
Revenue and profits from the chemical and packaging film segments grew 
from 46% of total revenue to 82% in its latest FY.  
In the chemicals division, SRF acquired Dymel from DuPont, making the group 
the only Indian manufacturer of HFC 134a, a chemical essential in medical 
applications such as a propellant for medical aerosols, in refrigeration and air 
conditioning systems. New plants were commissioned to serve customers 
beyond India and export to over 60 countries. This was a common trend 
across the quality Indian materials companies as many expanded their export 
business to achieve larger volumes. Transitioning from domestic customers to 
exporting opportunities opens a materials company to new clients, keeps 
them better aware of their global operational competitiveness and products, 
  
131
Images: These are product applications of 
SRF’s fluorochemicals business. (SRF Limited website)

unlocks more acquisition prospects, and provides more insights into broader 
expansionary opportunities. SRF also bought a smaller business in South 
Africa, opened new plants in Hungary, and acquired new patents to serve its 
global client base better.  
In Packaging Films, SRF developed a new strategy focusing on more value-
added products and improving efficiencies to maintain a utilisation rate of 
near 100%. The group also deepened its relationships with multinational 
companies operating in its markets and added more BOPET film capacity. This 
boosted revenue growth from its packaging division by 440% between 2014 
and 2021.  
Overall, while the textile division's revenue and profits remained flat between 
2014 and 2022, the chemicals and packaging film divisions grew revenues by 
444% (23% CAGR) and earnings by 1157% (37% CAGR). As a result, the 
multiples expanded from 0.9x EV/Revenue (8.1x EV/EBIT) to 5.7x EV/Revenue 
(27.6x EV/EBIT) between 2014 and 2022.  
Lesson 
Diversified material companies are generally difficult to assess due to their 
complex operations. Investors first need to segment each division and then 
map out both macro and micro business drivers within each segment.  
Differentiating macro from micro issues is also crucial, and it requires investors 
to compare companies with their rivals. In SRF's case, businesses like Anupam 
Rasayan, Century Enka Limited and Ester industries provide a comparative 
guide to gauging how SRF performs. During downturns, the weaker 
companies lose revenue and profits faster and may report losses of contracts 
with customers more often than peers. When the industry is over-earning, 
every company's revenue and profits go up regardless of the quality of 
operations. This is usually when an investor should be cautious when making 
investments. Like SRF Limited, companies who made investments during bad 
times, like when air conditioning sales plummeted, affecting the chemicals 
division, showed which management team was more forward-thinking. 
Due to the lack of progress in its largest segment, Technical Textiles, SRF 
Limited would not have looked like a growth opportunity until 2018, but 
  
132

analysts who looked behind the numbers might have spotted the improving 
operations in the smaller segments and its actual growth potential.   
SRF Limited also teaches us how acquisitions and expansion in an export 
market can support the growth of commodity companies. To fund these 
acquisition and expansionary plans, SRF did not need to issue new shares and 
was transparent with shareholders on areas they would prioritise, such as 
value-added products beyond its traditional textile segment.  
  
133

  
134
The packaging film and chemicals businesses accelerated SRF’s margins. In chemicals, SRF 
is the sole supplier of F32, F134a and F125 in India, and recent import duties on Chinese 
companies have supported SRF’s pricing power. See 2021 annual report. 
Between 2012-2014, SRF was not necessarily a bad business as the macro environment 
impacted profitability. This is usually the best time to invest in materials as markets often 
project macro issues into company-specific ones.  
₹
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Reven
ues
40,010
37,830
40,181
45,399
48,983
51,366
56,849
70,996
72,094
84,000
Technic
al 
Textiles
(TTB)
21,467
21,313
21,857
20,396
19,050
20,102
18,388
17,349
13,576
12,401
Chemic
als 
Busine
ss (CB)
12,041
10,350
9,563
12,634
16,398
17,214
16,114
24,454
29,750
36,449
Packag
ing Film  
(PF)
6,602
6,208
8,830
12,460
13,606
14,092
17,823
26,533
26,040
32,917
PF as 
% of 
revenu
e 
17%
16%
22%
27%
28%
27%
31%
37%
36%
39%
EBT
7,339
4,760
3,494
5,576
7,687
7,857
7,964
10,790
12,504
18,285
(TTB)
1,145
1,234
1,631
1,957
1,810
2,571
2,529
2,615
1,515
1,769
(CB)
5,941
3,465
1,913
2,983
3,936
3,274
2,694
3,843
5,115
7,281
(PFB)
252
60
(50)
636
1,940
2,013
2,298
4,115
5,556
8,979
(PF) as 
% of 
EBT
3%
1%
-1%
11%
25%
26%
29%
38%
44%
49%

Ganfeng Lithium - Leading the Chinese lithium ecosystem 
Return: 2,749% 
Ganfeng Lithium is an integrated lithium compounds manufacturer founded in 
2000 by its current CEO and chairman, Li Liangbin. Its lithium operations are 
segmented into four areas of the lithium value chain:  
•
Lithium metals 
•
Lithium compounds (Lithium Hydroxide, Lithium Carbonate) 
•
Lithium batteries  
•
Lithium battery recycling  
Between 2000 and 2007, Ganfeng mainly focused on extracting lithium 
chloride from brine in salt lakes and its n-butyllithium production. In 2009, its 
technological progress advanced operations into higher value-added battery-
grade lithium carbonate from brine. Ganfeng was listed on the Chinese stock 
exchange in 2010, becoming the first listed lithium Chinese company.  
 
Investment Case 
Lithium has not always been as relevant as it is today. Although the first 
commercial lithium-ion battery was issued in 1991, global production only 
took off significantly in 2016, with approximately 75% of production from 
China. The metal is mainly sourced from Western Australian mines and salt 
lakes in South America and China (75% of lithium reserves).  
The period between 2012 and 2015 was critical for Ganfeng as it began 
cementing its foundations for global lithium leadership. It completed its 
10,000-ton lithium salt plant in 2013, and in 2014, Ganfeng expanded 
  
135
Image: A Ganfeng Lithium project in western Australia (left) and a recently launched 
Ganfeng battery cell (right). (company website)

downstream and upstream with investments in Spodumene projects in Ireland, 
Argentina and Australia. Production was still mainly in lithium compounds, but 
its first battery plant in Dongguan, Guangdong, was already nearing 
completion. Battery production operations began in the plant in 2016, and 
today, there are five battery production bases across China and five lithium 
compound industrial parks.  
Ganfeng again expanded both upstream and downstream after 2015 to have 
a more substantial control of the lithium ecosystem. It entered into new lithium 
material joint ventures in countries like Mexico and Mali and expanded into 
the lithium recycling economy via the Ganfeng Recycling plant commenced in 
2017.  
Ganfeng Lithium and the other Chinese lithium outperformers like EVE Energy 
and Tianqi Lithium were more aggressive than their western rivals like 
Albermarle but to understand their growth model, we need to understand the 
Chinese electric vehicle market. 
Chinese Electric Vehicle demand 
Although Ganfeng currently has operations outside China (22% of revenue in 
2021 was from overseas clients), the demand for lithium batteries is primarily 
driven by Chinese EV sales. Between 2010 and 2020, China was the largest EV 
producer, representing 4.6 million or 44% of global production and growing 
by 166% in 2021. The battery is a third of the costs in EVs, and 80% of lithium-
ion batteries in the world are used in EV production. With customers ranging 
from LG Chem, Tesla, and BMW, among others, Ganfeng's lithium value-chain 
operations are critical for the industry's growth.  
Despite this growth, lithium as a commodity has not always had favourable 
economics. Lithium Carbonate prices almost halved between 2017 and 2020, 
with many pointing to the oversupply of lithium in Australia. The poor lithium 
sentiment also affected its Hong Kong listing in 2018 when it underperformed 
due to weak investor appetite for lithium stocks. 
For Ganfeng Lithium, its strategy wasn’t solely dependent on favourable 
pricing, but also on volume growth in both lithium batteries and lithium 
compounds. Over the past ten years, Ganfeng's revenue and operating profits 
have compounded by 40% and 59%, respectively. The battery division only 
  
136

went online in 2016 and represented 
18% of revenue by 2021. Despite 
the significant decline in lithium 
market prices in 2019, operating 
profit margins remained in double-
digits (14.9%) thanks to this 
diversification, expansion upstream 
and control of its lithium ecosystem.  
Lesson  
Value investors primarily focused on relative multiples would have found 
Ganfeng Lithium very expensive. Its EV/EBIT rarely fell below 40x (only during 
2018-2019, when lithium prices fell by half). Growth investors would have said 
its earnings are too dependent on the cyclical lithium price, while quality 
investors would have screened out all materials industry players. 
  
As we have learned from Ganfeng, growth investments can also be found in 
cyclical industries, and value investments can be in companies with high 
earnings multiples if the growth is fast enough (100x 2011 earnings was less 
than Ganfeng's 2021 earnings).  
In both situations, what matters is not necessarily the current position but 
rather future projections and what steps mining companies may seek to 
counter the pricing falls of the commodity. For Ganfeng, its buffer was volume 
growth, its global advantage as a Chinese company and expansion into value-
added products like its single cell and battery systems. Despite the decline in 
earnings in 2019, profits that year was still more than ten times bigger than  its 
2012 earnings.  
Catalysts such as its entry into batteries, new contracts with EV leaders like 
Tesla and BMW, and its forward-thinking acquisitions showed Ganfeng had the 
edge over western peers like Albermarle. This is important because scale 
alone can not win quality clients in value-added material businesses. Unlike 
the core material segment, derivative products need to be competitive due to 
  
137
Image: Ganfeng’s 2018 IPO in Hong Kong 
IPO was not appreciated by the market as 
lithium prices had declined. (Financial Times)

the client's need for performance and battery durability. Without a chemistry 
degree, one way investors can assess global competitiveness is by seeing who 
is winning new clients and how long contract terms are valued.  
Unlike SRF Limited, Ganfeng Lithium diversified within the lithium ecosystem 
rather than entering new materials. This is a common strategy in fast-growth 
materials like lithium. To assess if management is making the right decision, 
expansionary plans have to fulfil one of these (1) value-added products, thus, 
better margins, (2) insights and knowledge into new applications or (3) 
improved control of its ecosystem and 'volume power'. In Ganfeng's case, its 
expansionary plan achieved all three objectives. 
  
138
Commodity companies are cyclical and you should not neglect the supply and demand 
drivers of the commodity. For Ganfeng, this is lithium and since 2017, lithium spot prices have 
been very volatile.  
The volatility didn't stop Ganfeng Lithium from growing its revenue yearly, driven by its 
aggressive volume growth across its operations.
¥ m
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Revenue
628
686
870
1,354
2,844
4,383
5,004
5,342
5,524
11,162
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
492
528
684
1,064
1,871
2,601
3,202
4,108
4,343
6,720
Gross 
Profit
137
159
186
290
973
1,782
1,802
1,234
1,182
4,442
Op costs
60
73
90
120
184
297
461
455
328
953
EBIT
76
86
95
169
789
1,485
1,341
779
853
3,489
EBIT 
Margin %
12.1%
12.5%
11.0%
12.5%
27.7%
33.9%
26.8%
14.6%
15.4%
31.3%
Revenue 
growth
32.2%
9.3%
26.7%
55.7%
110.1%
54.1%
14.2%
6.8%
3.4%
102.1%
EBIT 
growth
37.3%
12.6%
11.1%
77.6%
365.9%
88.4%
(9.7%)
(41.9%)
9.5%
309.0%

Treatt -  A British turnaround  
Return: 1,193% 
Treatt, founded in 1886 by Richard Treatt, is a natural extracts and ingredients 
manufacturer for the flavour, beverage and fragrance industries. Via its 
manufacturing sites in the UK and US, Treatt sells over 1,700 products across 
75 countries in seven categories - citrus, tea, coffee, fruits & vegetables, spice 
and florals, health & wellness and aroma. The largest of these segments is 
citrus, which comes from fruits like oranges, lemons and limes, and exposes its 
operations to the cyclical orange oil price. Prices are also dependent on 
weather, population growth and other macro factors.  
Treatt's customers are either fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) beverage 
brands (41% of sales) or flavour and fragrance brands (59% of sales). Treatt has 
a 10+ year relationship with its top ten customers by sales value. Almost half 
of its total sales come from these top ten customers.  
Investment Case 
Treatt's current CEO, Daemmon Reeve, was promoted to CEO in 2012 after a 
20-year career rising through the ranks at Treatt. The board selected him to 
lead the turnaround after Treatt had struggled to achieve double-digit margins 
for a few years. The turnaround process at Treatt can be split into two stages; 
the initial strategic focus on its global operations and then the transition into 
value-added and higher margin products.  
Daemmon Reeve announced the new strategy in late 2012, which focused on 
increasing Treatt's profitability. 
Inefficiencies were discovered at 
the UK plant, and management 
concluded it needed to relocate 
to a more modernised facility to 
boost long term utilisation rates 
and Treatt's responsiveness to 
demand fluctuations. It can be 
challenging for management to 
make such strategic shifts given 
the impact on immediate profits 
  
139
Image: Treatt moved into a new facility in the US 
to lead a company-wide expansion (company 
website)

and market short-termism. The new headquarter in Suffolk, England, was only 
completed in 2020. Treatt also expanded its US operations at Lakeland, 
Florida, strengthening the capacity in health & wellness, tea and fruit & 
vegetable segments. 
Second, there was an upgrade in customer segments into iced tea and sugar 
reduction customers, which supported its value-added ambitions and now 
represents 29% of total revenue. This process required Treatt to work closely 
with customers in formulating new blends, conducting taste trials and 
exploring different beverage applications. Again, we see how awareness of 
customer demands and responsiveness to global trends such as healthier 
living can benefit companies. This response allowed Treatt to outperform its 
revenue goals while also growing its profitability margin, given the higher 
profit margin in these value-added healthier living products.  
The £100 million sales goal initially set for 2020 was achieved in 2017, and 
operating profit margins improved from 7.6% in 2012 FY to 12.2% in 2017 FY. 
After 2017, the export market became increasingly more critical, with regions 
like Germany (+30%), South America (+97%) and China (+27%) seeing record 
revenue growth. Sales in the UK now only represent 7% of total revenue, from 
14% of total revenue in 2012. By 2021, operating margins hit a record high of 
17%, more than double the 7.6% operating margin achieved during the 2012 
FY (September year-end).  
With margins improving and the company achieving earnings growth, analyst 
coverage improved, and Treatt saw a multiple expansion from 0.6x EV/
Revenue (6.7x EV/EBIT) in 2012 to its latest 4.2x EV/Revenue (31.4x EV/EBIT). 
Lesson  
Among the materials businesses we assessed, Treatt's investment case was the 
most difficult to have spotted as revenue growth was among the slowest in the 
group. While the demand for healthier living products was apparent, the 
opportunity in citrus and fragrance chemicals was unclear, and its exposure to 
orange oil meant earnings would be cyclical.  
However, we see the beauty of how turnarounds can drive multiples expansion 
and operating profit growth and margin despite minimal revenue growth. The 
new management in 2012 was transparent in its targets and strategy, from its 
  
140

budget and expansionary plans in the US to its relocation of the British 
headquarters. 
While most of the share price gains in Treatt resulted from the multiples 
expansion, we also see how important starting with low valuations in 
turnarounds is, especially when revenue growth is not explosive.  
  
141
Between 2012 and 2021, Treatt’s operating profit margin doubled between 2012 and 
2021. Its balance sheet also became healthier as debt to capital decreased over the years.  
While we think Treatt 37x EV/EBIT is expensive today, paying 10x earnings in 2015 
provided a margin of safety for shareholders. 
£
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
EBIT 
Margin 
7.6%
9.4%
9.5%
10.0%
10.7%
12.2%
12.3%
11.9%
13.7%
17.0%
Debt/
Capital
37.5%
28.0%
28.4%
21.3%
20.6%
24.9%
21.4%
19.6%
7.4%
13.3%
Rev 
growth
(0.7%)
0.1%
6.9%
8.5%
2.5%
15.0%
10.8%
0.5%
(3.3%)
14.0%
EBIT 
growth
(21.4%)
24.4%
8.0%
13.6%
9.8%
31.1%
11.5%
(2.8%)
11.6%
41.8%
EV/
EBIT 
10.01x
12.90x
10.88x
10.84x
14.21x
20.21x
17.46x
19.17x
32.68x
36.73x

Industrials  
Outperformers: 68 companies 
Industrials produced more companies than the healthcare industry (63 
companies) and had just as much as the consumer staples and discretionary 
sectors combined. If we compare this with the 2002-2012 period, industrials 
similarly outperformed, representing 16% (49 of 300 companies) that returned 
more than 1,000% during that period.  
Industrials are typically thought of as low margin, capital heavy with high 
political risks and thus generally under-appreciated as a sector for discovering 
growth opportunities. While these are primarily true, the breadth of industrials 
means many companies get neglected by the market. This made industrials an 
exciting sector to explore in terms of finding great investment opportunities in 
unlikely places.  
We split the industrials into three segments: 
•
Capital Goods (building products, machinery, electrical equipment, 
machinery, aerospace and defence etc.) 
•
Transportation (air freight and logistics, airlines, marine, road, rail and 
transport infrastructure) 
•
Commercial and Professional Services (Waste management, security 
services, office services etc. 
The capital goods segment 
represented 68% of the total 
screened industrial sample size 
a n d w a s 6 2 % ( 4 2 o f 6 8 
c o m p a n i e s ) , m e a n i n g i t 
underperformed relative to its 
sample size despite the number 
of outperformers.  
Industrial automation was a big 
driver for this segment as 
m a c h i n e r y a n d e l e c t r i c a l 
e q u i p m e n t c o m p a n i e s 
represented about half of the 42 
  
142
21%
18%
62%
Capital Goods
Commercial and professional services
Transportation 

companies. Most of these industrial automation beneficiaries were Indian, 
Swedish and Chinese companies.  
Swedish companies like Addtech and Xano Industri were among the leaders 
benefitting from the automation of factories, warehouses and plants trend we 
witnessed worldwide. Beyond automation, various companies developed 
products that provided cleaner and more sustainable approaches to energy, 
building and construction. For example, Vestas Wind and Sungrow Power 
brought innovation to the wind turbine and solar PV industries, respectively. 
Trex, NIBE Industrier and STEICO each made more sustainable solutions to 
building products from insulation to flooring, producing lower emissions than 
traditional alternatives.  
Within transportation, there was a relatively even spread across the sub-
segments, with companies also coming from asset-heavier industries like 
airlines and air freight. Given its low margin, political risks and exposure to 
exogenous shocks, airlines like Jet2 (1,670%) and Air Canada (2,339%) 
surprisingly produced some of the best returns. All marine transportation 
companies were Asian companies, with PT Temas Shipping being the best 
performer (4,718%). Virtually all of their share price gains occurred during the 
pandemic, fuelled by a shipping price boom. 
50% of the 12 companies in commercial and professional services were 
Japanese consultants. The Japanese consultants mainly addressed economic 
and social issues like low growth, an elderly population, and talent shortage. 
Beyond Japan, there was a diverse mix of companies from sectors like waste 
management, repair centres and protection & treatment services. These 
companies were typically slow-growth turnarounds or dependent on M&A for 
growth.  
For the case studies into the opportunities in industrials, we analyse a 
company in each sub-sector; capital goods (Trex), Transportation (Airports of 
Thailand Public Company) and Commercial and professional services (Nihon 
M&A). Each were leaders in their respective industries but presented different 
investment lessons. Airports of Thailand Public Company teaches us how 
Public-private partnerships (PPP) can unlock value for all stakeholders. In 
Nihon M&A Center, we learn how great compounders are sometimes born 
during economic recessions, while Trex shows us how new management can 
bring new life into an almost bankrupt company.  
  
143

Case studies  
Trex - Revival of a market leader 
Return: 1,652% 
Trex Company is a manufacturer and distributor of railing, decking and 
outdoor products for the residential and commercial markets in the US and 
export markets. Roger Wittenberg created the idea behind Trex after 
combining sawdust and shredded plastic bags to create a material called 
Rivenite. Mobile Chemical Co (ExxonMobil) later acquired the technology and 
rebranded it as Timbrex before going public in 1999.  
In the decking industry, lumber is the most well-known material for furnishing. 
The problem with lumber is that its life span typically lasts 10-15 years due to 
insects, fading and other maintenance needs. Lumber also contributes to 
deforestation, which has broader environmental impacts. On the other hand, 
Trex does not rot, is termite-proof, is primarily made from waste products, and 
lasts longer than wood.  
Over a lifetime, Trex presents a cheaper, easier to maintain, more sustainable 
and better aesthetic option than wood. Compared to “alternative wood” 
peers like AZEK, Trex is more susceptible to moisture damage but is better 
equipped to deal with cracking, especially during temperature swings. The 
alternative wood decking market has a quarter of the overall market share ($8 
billion market) in the USA and Trex is the largest manufacturer in the wood-
alternative segment.  
  
144
Image: Trex patented alternative wood is a market 
leader in the alternative market (company website)

Its wholesale distribution network generates most of its sales from professional 
contractors and remodellers to homebuilders. Home Depot and Lowe’s 
purchase Trex’s products directly to serve the contractor and the do-it-yourself 
markets. Other key distributors are Boise Cascade and the U.S Lumber Group, 
each exceeding more than 10% of Trex’s gross sales. Markets beyond the US 
have lately become crucial for Trex, and their products now reach over 40 
countries beyond the US.  
Investment Case  
Between its IPO in 1999 and 2012, Trex shares mainly traded between $2 and 
$5 per share. An investment at the end of 1999 would have returned 0% by 
2012. Its woeful stock performance was a reflection of its financials and 
management decisions. Debt levels were pretty high and they violated bank 
covenants. Operating margins consistently fell from 27% in 2000 to 1.8% in 
2006 before going into losses in 2007 (-24%) after lawsuits and product 
defects were identified in some sold products. The housing market 
significantly contracted during the financial crisis, further disrupting Trex and 
its potential growth opportunities.  
Its virtual monopoly in wood-alternative products had been a blessing and a 
curse as the quality of its product dropped. New players like Fiberon and 
AZEK also entered the market.  
Turnaround 
The turnaround started with the arrival 
of Ron Kaplan in 2008. His first step 
was to identify the problem and 
measures to address critical issues 
affecting Trex. It was clear costs were 
bloated, and its manufacturing facility 
in Olive branch, Mississippi, was 
suspended. Other manufacturing 
operations were consolidated into two 
plants in Virginia and Nevada. Quality 
control procedures were also 
implemented to avoid future product 
defects, and new distributors replaced 
  
145
Image: Ron Kaplan joined Trex in 2008 
and led the company’s turnaround from 
the brink of bankruptcy (Barrons Interview) 

other distributors who had terminated contracts. Wages at Trex were also 
excessively high, and its new CEO axed 10 of 11 vice presidents, including 30 
managers. Compensation became subject to the cost of conversion of raw 
materials to drive efficiency and the new management shifted executive pay 
into more aligned metrics in productivity and bottom-line earnings.   
By 2014, operating margins were back to double-digits (last achieved in 2004) 
and management looked to the next stage of its turnaround, driving revenue 
growth. To drive revenue, Trex focused on various key areas. As relationships 
with US distributors improved, Trex looked beyond the USA and began 
exporting its products to distributors worldwide. Second, Trex expanded into 
higher-margin products in its specialty materials segment. The Trex Transcend 
had more features like fade resistance, scratch resistance, shell protection and 
more colour options for customers.  
Trex also refreshed its branding and marketing approach and communicated 
its value creation for customers through better stories and advertising 
channels. More recent campaigns focus on telling family stories that evoke 
emotions towards house owners. Trex became the number one brand in a 
Builders Magazine study in 2015 and has since won several campaign 
branding industry awards. 
Despite the lack of growth in the decking market, Trex compounded its 
revenue by 16% while operating earnings compounded by 35% over the 
decade.  
Lesson 
Trex is another example of a “high potential turnaround” case in the subset 
group. Like most high-potential turnarounds, Trex had the three critical 
ingredients for a successful high potential turnaround. First, Trex had a star 
product/franchise/brand with market leadership before its decline. Trex 
invented the composite-material segment within home furnishing, and at 
launch, it was well-received by customers, with sales growing 10-fold between 
1996 and 2000 while operating margins reached 28%.  
However, this monopoly and success brought complacency to Trex. This is 
where the second key ingredient for a turnaround comes in, a new life for 
management. While current management can lead a business revival, 
  
146

turnarounds like Trex, where a company goes from industry-leading margins to 
being at risk of bankruptcy, typically requires new life. From eliminating the 
inefficiencies to aligning management incentives with shareholders, we see 
the value Ron Kaplan brought to Trex. The final stage of these high potential 
turnarounds is the ability to return to growth mode. For Trex, this was possible 
due to the small market share wood-alternatives had over wood and its value-
add for customers. To grow this market share, management expanded into 
new regions, created new products across the railing, decking and outdoor 
markets, and built better distribution channels with partners like Lowe’s and 
Home Depot.  
In these high-potential turnarounds, do investors need to time investments to 
the nearest day, month or year? No. If the turnaround opportunity is great, 
investors can wait for things to look better before investing. Investors who 
waited six years after the initial turnaround announcement by the new 
management in 2008 would have still returned 650% from 2014 to date 
(28.7% CAGR). For most, it’s better to wait for results to show in leading 
indicators. These leading indicators in Trex’s case were things like industry 
awards, customer perception, product space with distributors, and market 
share gains or improvements in issues such as productivity or quality failures.  
 We can break this lesson into four key areas: 
1.
Is it a star product, brand or franchise?  
2.
Why is the new management the right team? Are they willing to make the 
hard decisions?  
3.
What leading indicators do we need to use to assess progress? How are 
these leading indicators performing? 
4.
Can they grow revenue and profits beyond the initial turnaround?  
  
147

  
148
Management focused on paying down debt, which declined from 45% debt/capital in 
2010 to 0% in 2013. The healthy balance sheet provided Trex with more room to invest in 
its product, distribution and brand.  
The EV/EBIT, especially between 2010 and 2013, was meaningless and over reliance on 
this would have made Trex look expensive.  
$ m
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
Revenue
318
267
307
343
392
441
480
565
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
245
204
223
244
252
286
293
322
Gross 
Profit
73
63
85
99
140
155
187
243
Op.  
costs
68
61
72
72
72
78
83
101
EBIT 
5
2
13
26
68
77
104
142
Net 
Interest 
Exp.
(15.3)
(16.4)
(8.9)
(0.6)
(0.9)
(0.6)
(1.1)
(0.5)
EV/EBIT
39.46x
53.71x
85.49x
51.14x
43.23x
20.06x
18.36x
20.41x
EV/
Revenue
1.34x
1.39x
1.91x
2.79x
3.42x
3.57x
3.54x
4.65x
Return 
on 
Capital 
1.7%
0.7%
5.7%
16.0%
38.5%
40.9%
50.4%
48.7%
Total 
Debt/
Capital
45.3%
48.3%
5.1%
NA
NA
5.7%
NA
NA

Airports of Thailand plc - Partnering with the public sector 
Return: 1,136% 
Over the past two decades, we have seen the privatisation of many airports 
and, more recently, the public listing of airports. There are 51 globally listed 
airports and airport services companies, with the largest by market 
capitalisation being Airports of Thailand (AOT). The AOT group was founded 
in 1903 by the Thai government in preparation for its local airports after the 
Wright brothers powered the first aircraft. Eleven years later, the Don Mueang 
Airport, one of Bangkok's two international airports, was officially opened and 
is Asia's oldest operating airport, with commercial flights commencing in 
1924.  
AOT went public in 2004 and owns 39 airports, including four international 
airports at regional sites and the two main Bangkok airports. The Thai Ministry 
of Finance maintains a 70% ownership. 
The Airport business model is split between aeronautical (56% of 2019 
revenue) and non-aeronautical (44% of 2019 revenue). Aeronautical revenue 
mainly consists of landing and parking airline charges, departure passenger 
service charges and aircraft services such as fees for using boarding bridges, 
while non-aeronautical revenue consists of office and property rental income, 
duty-free concession, catering, fuelling services, advertising, and car parking. 
From a cost view, well-run airports have employee benefits & expenses as 
their highest costs, then depreciation & amortisation, payments to the state 
for property come next, and repair & maintenance of infrastructure and utility 
  
149
Image: Suvarnabhumi Airport (left) and Don Mueang International Airport 
(right) are the two international airports in Bangkok (Trip adviser) 

expenses are the following key costs. These well-run airports can earn an 
operating profit margin of up to 50%+ during good years.   
Investment Case 
To understand the investment case for AOT, we have to first zoom out into the 
macroeconomic landscape in Thailand. As the second largest economy in 
Southeast Asia, Thailand has seen tremendous economic growth. Thailand 
achieved one of the highest GDP growth figures, doubling its per capita 
between 2000 and 2007 and 2007 and 2019. Between 1988 and 2016, people 
below the poverty line fell from 65.3% to 8.6%. Today, it has one of the lowest 
unemployment figures in the world (1% in 2020).  
A significant driver of airport passenger volume is tourism, and tourism in 
Thailand contributes 12% to its GDP (the average for countries is 9%). The 
number of international tourists more than doubled during the decade (pre-
covid), mainly driven by Chinese tourists (27% of total tourists). In a 
Mastercard Global Cities Index, Bangkok was the 2nd most visited city and 
was 4th globally for adventure. These factors significantly boosted the volume 
and earnings for AOT.  
While the macro case contributed to most of AOT's growth, management 
took advantage of the financial crisis recovery in earnings and funded various 
operational developments across its airports. The Suvarnabhumi Airport 
invested in 28 additional gates and expanded its parking and automated 
capabilities between 2011 and 2017. The Phuket Airport renovated its 
terminal and added a new international passenger terminal. Commercial 
projects such as adding airport malls, hotels, and export exhibition centres 
further boosted revenue and profitability from its non-aeronautical segment.  
Overall, AOT passenger traffic grew by 113% between FY 2011 and 2019, 
while aircraft movement traffic grew by 103% during the same period. AOT 
saw its revenue grow by 119% (10.3% CAGR) while operating profits increased 
by 331% (20% CAGR), improving its operating margin from 24% to 48% 
between 2011 and 2019.  
Coming out of the financial crisis, relative valuations contracted and was 3.5x 
EV/Revenue (17.6x EV/EBIT) in 2011, ending its 2019 FY at 16.3x EV/Revenue 
(32.8x EV/EBIT). Since the pandemic, AOT's financials, like other airports, have 
  
150

severely suffered as it made only 24% of its 2020 FY revenue in 2021 while 
falling into losses. 
Lesson 
Airports are natural monopolies; there is a limit to how many airports cities can 
have. While most remain in partial public sector ownership, there's a growing 
global appetite for privatisation. AOT presents a great model for private-
public ownership in listed companies. This is currently more common in Asia, 
and owning a business that's 70% owned by local authorities might be unusual 
to many western investors. Some investors even screen out government-
owned companies and exclude companies like AOT from their opportunity 
set.  
AOT, like other airports, can be highly profitable when managed with 
operational excellence. But the real opportunities for investors in airport 
infrastructure are in those that transition from bad to good or good to great. 
On average, good airports have EBITDA margins between 30-60%. The 
opportunities come from airports with EBITDA margins at the lower end but 
potentially improving to 50%+. This goes contrary to quality investing, as 
airport investors should actually look for bad quality rather than great quality 
companies. Another case study in the airport industry is Grupo Aeroportuario 
del Pacífico, the Mexican listed operator of 12 airports in Mexico.  
Macro factors certainly influence an airport's turnaround and growth potential 
and in countries growing their economic and tourism activity, like Thailand, the 
ability to increase revenue is more likely. It's crucial for investors in airports to 
track this and build leading indicators that determine revenue growth. Airport-
specific factors are much harder to track, but data points like customer 
satisfaction and duty-free volume growth provide investors with a lens into the 
airport's operational progress.  
  
151

2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
Return on 
Capital 
2.0%
3.3%
4.9%
7.0%
7.0%
10.4%
10.1%
EBIT 
Margin 
18.3%
24.3%
35.0%
40.9%
40.2%
52.9%
47.1%
Debt/
Capital
47.0%
46.8%
42.2%
32.3%
28.0%
24.2%
21.3%
Revenue 
growth 
11.8%
19.2%
6.2%
21.1%
2.1%
17.0%
15.9%
EBIT 
growth 
48.8%
58.4%
52.8%
41.4%
0.2%
54.1%
3.1%
  
152
The airport of Thailand's operating profit margin more than doubled between 2010 and 
2013, thanks to the strong recovery in Thailand's tourism and the operational progress in 
various airports.  
It may be tempting to focus on the high-margin airports, but the more significant 
opportunities are in those that can increase their operating margin due to revenue growth 
limits in the airport business.  

Nihon M&A Center - Born during a crisis 
Total return: 1,507% 
Nihon M&A Center was founded by its current chairman, Yasuhiro 
Wakebayashi, during the early 1990s, a decade known as the 'Lost Decade' as 
the Japanese economy suffered from economic stagnation and price 
deflation. Nihon M&A Center initially operated in accounting services for 
Japanese clients, but in response to the Japanese M&A boom, they expanded 
in 2000 into the M&A business and consulted for Management buyouts 
(MBO).  
Nihon M&A Center mainly focuses on cross-border deals where Japanese 
companies may expand abroad by acquiring smaller players, or foreign 
companies may acquire a Japanese company to expand operations in the 
market. Beyond M&A, Nihon M&A Center also have an advisory business 
supporting Tokyo Pro Market listings. Outside Japan, they also operate across 
Southeast Asia and now has over 1,000+ accounting firm partners and 316 
regional institutional partners within its network.  
Six of the 12 companies in the commercial and professional services segment 
came from Japan which was surprising. Japanese professional services 
companies like OUTSOURCING INC, S-Pool, and SMS Co were also in the 
subset. The question for us was, why are the Japanese services businesses so 
successful?  
Investment Case 
There are a few reasons for this. First, on the recruitment side, the ageing 
economy has caused a recruitment headache for companies and businesses 
like S-Pool aim to fill this gap. The stagnating economic growth prospects 
have also shifted companies to either look internally (cost-cutting) or explore 
acquisitions. Management consultancies benefit more from the former, while 
M&A houses like IR Japan and Nihon M&A Center benefit from the latter. The 
ageing economy has also caused companies to struggle with passing the 
baton to younger generations. In many family-owned companies, selling to a 
larger peer often seems like the only real opportunity, creating additional 
opportunities for M&A advisory.  
  
153

Japan is mainly driven by private merger and acquisition (M&A) transactions 
and had 403 private transactions of over ¥9 trillion ($67 billion) in value in 
2021. Behind these deals are companies like Nihon M&A Center that advise 
how to structure contracts, the acquisition price and the post-acquisition 
strategy for the buyer. 90% of its advisory work is with sellers with less than ¥2 
billion ($15 million) in sales, and about a quarter of the typical deal activity 
comes from the construction and real estate industry.  
To be a successful M&A firm, one needs expertise in the deal structure, 
advisory, a deep network of clients and partners, a track record of success and 
a skilled employee base. While this is not an impenetrable business model, 
achieving deep networks takes time. We call this "time as a barrier to entry", 
and since its inception, Nihon M&A Center has advised on over 7,000 M&A 
deals which helps make them a preferred choice when seeking an M&A 
partner.  
With sellers, Nihon M&A Center collects a retainer fee after signing the 
advisory agreement and another fee upon completion, settlement and 
announcement. For the buyer, they collect fees on both occasions and an 
interim fee after the buyer signs a letter of intent post negotiation of price & 
terms with the seller. In some cases, firms may approach them to match 
potential targets.  
Operationally, Nihon M&A Center has kept its model the same. They 
continually invest in relationships and partnerships, which serve as a pipeline 
for potential deals. Given the asset-light model, spare cash is reinvested into 
hiring more consultants and expanding cross-border expertise and technology 
capabilities. Its online matching site, Batonz, mainly targets a core segment of 
companies with an annual turnover of below ¥100m. Batonz now has more 
than 100,000 registered users. 
Over the past ten years, Nihon M&A Center compounded its revenue and 
operating earnings by 21% and 20%, respectively, while maintaining a debt-
free balance sheet in most years. Since 2008, they maintained an operating 
profit margin of 40%+ in all but one year (2010). The strong growth and 
profitability expanded its multiples from 4.3x EV/Revenue in 2012 (9.3x EV/
EBIT) to 9.8x EV/Revenue in 2022 (24x EV/EBIT).  
  
154

Lesson  
There are three key lessons we learn with Nihon M&A Center. First, like other 
Japanese consultancies, many were formed during the lost decade when the 
Japanese economy structurally suffered. Businesses suffered in different areas 
from growth strategies and execution, talent recruitment, and other business 
strategies, and Nihon M&A Center shifted its business model from accounting 
to supporting companies with their growth strategy. Where problems lie, 
solutions are also present, and it is vital for investors to qualitatively screen 
and develop an idea bank of companies or business models that could solve 
the issues, as with Nihon M&A Center in Japan.  
Second, the investment case for consultants and other professional services 
companies in a service-based economy is quite appealing. The knowledge 
focus makes most asset-light, requiring very little capital expenditure. Early 
movers can deepen their networks and expertise through experience and 
increase barriers to entry via their first mover advantage. Nihon M&A Center 
has used physical and digital channels to achieve this, from the Batonz 
matching site to its many M&A and post-merger integration seminars held 
across Japan. 
Lastly, while we expect to see many of these investment cases in the 
consulting and professional services industry, every quality business model has 
a price, including Nihon M&A Center. Its multiples reached 75x EV/EBIT peak 
in 2020, which in our view was too expensive despite its growth and 
  
155
Image: A screenshot of the Batonz webpage

profitability. The share price declined by 60% in eight months and teaches the 
importance of valuations when analysing investments.  
 
¥ m
*2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Revenue
7,214
10,547
12,227
14,778
19,069
24,625
28,463
32,009
34,795
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
2,487
3,491
4,087
5,318
6,979
9,129
11,351
12,558
13,577
Gross 
Profit
4,727
7,056
8,140
9,460
12,090
15,496
17,112
19,451
21,218
Op costs
1,321
1,608
2,042
2,457
3,044
3,890
4,578
5,204
5,882
EBIT
3,406
5,448
6,098
7,003
9,046
11,606
12,534
14,247
15,336
EV/ 
EBIT
9.13x
17.97x
20.11x
27.62x
31.95x
35.56x
43.86x
35.93x
52.01x
EBIT 
Margin 
%
47.2%
51.7%
49.9%
47.4%
47.4%
47.1%
44.0%
44.5%
44.1%
  
156
Nihon M&A Center has consistently earned high margins over the years. Since its IPO in 
2004, the EBIT margin has been >30% every year.  
The issue quality and growth companies like Nihon M&A Center face is that their 
valuations become expensive (52x EV/EBIT in 2020). 
*Fiscal year end is 31st March

Utilities  
Outperformers: 5 companies  
The utilities industry was the most unattractive sector to search for 
outperformers as it only produced five companies during the period. If we also 
go back to the prior decade, only three companies from the sector returned 
more than 1,000% (2002-2012). There are many reasons why we rarely see 
great returns in the utilities industry. Utilities provide basic amenities such as 
water, gas, and electricity. Unlike their energy sector peers in electricity, 
utilities connect directly to the local or national grid, and prices are often 
heavily regulated by the government. These usually have price caps and in 
some cases, especially in water utilities, they are fully or partially government-
owned. During periods of high energy or water costs or exogenous shocks, 
i.e. water contamination, the utilities are often under pressure to absorb the 
excess costs to households.  
The utilities industry is segmented into five segments: 
•
Electric utilities (transmission, control, generation and distribution) 
•
Gas utilities (natural gas distribution and transmission) 
•
Water utilities (water testing, supply, purification, treatment and 
irrigation) 
•
Renewable electricity (fuel cells, biofuels, solar, wind and hydroelectric)  
•
Multi-utilities 
High debt levels was typical across the broader utilities industry and also 
among the five subset companies. The minimum total debt/EBITDA among 
the subset group was West Holdings, the Japanese solar power supplier, with 
5.2x, or 70% total debt/capital. Without real competition, these companies are 
often too big to fail, and governments typically step in during challenging 
periods (not always), allowing utilities to operate with excess debt. Given the 
guaranteed pricing and customer structure, their steady cash flow supports 
operating with such high debt commitments.  
Finally, while most businesses are relatively stable and profitable in the utilities 
industry (80% of public listed utilities were profitable in 2019), only 8% 
achieved a return on capital above 10% in 2019. Only the materials industry 
performed worse than this on a return on capital basis. We were surprised we 
  
157

even found outperformers from the utilities industry, and all five had one thing 
in common, renewables.  
Renewables  
The five utilities outperformers were each focused on renewable energy. There 
were two European utilities (Greece and Spain) and three Asian utilities (Israel, 
Japan and Thailand). The solar power producers were in predominately hot 
countries. Israel, where Enlight Renewable Energy Ltd operates, has 
reportedly recorded the hottest temperature in Asia. Super Energy 
Corporation (Thailand) and West Holdings (Japan) operate among some of the 
hottest regions in Asia. Terna Energy (Greece) and Solaria Energia (Spain) are 
among the continent's hottest countries in Europe.  
Each company benefitted from its government's renewables policy, 
particularly in solar power production. Greece ranks 5th worldwide in per 
capita installed photovoltaic capacity thanks to Feed-in Tariffs introduced in 
2006, simplifying its authorisation procedure for PV companies, introducing 
the tender system and most recently, its new licensing regime. Israel has 
followed similar steps and supported its solar industry's education and 
research facilities. The Israeli government similarly approved a feed-in tariff in 
2008 for solar plants, which coincides with the year Enlight Renewable Energy 
was founded.  
While solar seems to be the more profitable renewable energy path for utility 
companies, Terna Energy delivered outperformance by growing its wind 
turbine operations, and we explore the investment case study.  
  
158

Case study 
Terna Energy - Greece’s wind energy ambitions 
Return: 1,865% 
Greece is among the leading countries in the EU in wind energy's share as a 
proportion of total electricity production (18%), more than tripling its installed 
capacity over the past decade. Behind this success are companies like Terna 
Energy which was established in 1997 by its current Chairman, Georgios 
Peristeris, and merged with GEK two years later. Its first wind park began 
operations in 2000 with an installed capacity of 11.22MW, and since then, 
Terna Energy has grown its portfolio of renewable energy across the country. 
Today, its energy solutions consist: 
•
Wind energy (866 MW) 
•
Hydroelectric projects (17.8 MW) 
•
Solar energy (8.5 MW) 
•
Biogas and waste management (2.6MW) 
Terna Energy has an additional capacity of 406 MW under construction and 
has set 2,049 MW for construction in future years.   
Although its operations are predominately based in Greece (85% of installed 
capacity), Terna Energy also operates in Poland (11% of capacity) and Bulgaria 
(3% of capacity). Within Greece, 18 of its 40 installed wind farms are in 
Karystos, Island of Evia; an area Terna has accelerated its onshore projects. 
  
159
Images: A Terna Energy hydroelectric project (left) and wind farm (right) 
in Greece. (Company website) 

Evia is one of the windiest areas in Greece, and Terna faces competition in 
local projects from peers like Iberdrola. Terna Energy had also operated three 
wind parks in Texas, USA, totalling 520 MW, but these were discontinued in 
2021 due to extreme weather conditions.  
From a revenue model, Terna Energy operates in four segments; construction, 
production of energy, trading in electric energy and concessions in public 
sector works. Construction projects typically have a Public-Private Partnership 
(PPP) model, which is the norm across the EU. An example is the "Integrated 
Waste Management of Peloponnese Region", between the "Perivallontiki of 
Peloponnese", a subsidiary of Terna Energy, and the Region of Peloponnese. 
Investment Case 
In 2011, Greece set a target of getting 18% of overall energy from renewable 
sources by 2020. Given Greece's climate and coastal geography, wind energy 
was prioritised by the government, and the EU and Greek governments 
created various incentives and schemes to support the industry. Before 2014, 
cash grants and equipment leasing subsidies were available for wind projects. 
Feed-in tariffs were established to support new wind power projects, and 
compensation schemes such as supporting revenue during output 
curtailments were also implemented to assist project development. Tier one 
operators such as Terna Energy, Ellaktor Group, EDF EN Hellas, and Iberdrola 
Renovables took advantage of these and scaled their projects and operations 
across Greece.  
Terna Energy is more vertically integrated than most peers as it does its own 
construction of wind farms, which permits the group to have better control of 
the costs, such as; negotiations with wind turbine makers like Siemens 
Gamesa and Vestas, time management in operational areas such as mapping 
and site preparation. Terna Energy also works directly with the government in 
the pre-development phase, which is critical during the bidding process and in 
securing power to the grid.  
Terna Energy's chairman, Georgios Peristeris, who also serves as the Hellenic 
Association of Renewable Energy Electricity President, gained a first-mover 
advantage in the early 2000s and ensured Terna had the best locations for 
wind farms which have significantly contributed to its market leadership in 
Greece. Beyond wind energy, Terna has also been opportunistic in finding 
  
160

government-backed projects in Greece. Its PPP in Peloponnese, currently 
Greece's largest waste management operation, continues to drive Greece's 
sustainable waste operations.  
Every year since 2003, Terna Energy has been operationally profitable, and the 
group has achieved year-on-year revenue growth in all but one year (2010) 
over the past 15 years. Overall, revenue and operating profits compounded 
by 18% during the ten years. As Terna Energy delivered above expectations 
during the decade, markets expanded its multiples from 4.2x EV/Revenue 
(13.4x EV/EBIT) in 2012 to 6.1x EV/Revenue (20.3x EV/EBIT) in 2022. 
Lesson 
Unlike most other industries, political analysis is essential in the utility industry, 
and investors should ensure that companies are politically aligned to achieve 
growth ambitions. Like the other four utility compounders, Terna Energy 
ensured its operations and investment areas (renewables) aligned with public 
policy and national government goals such as renewable energy enrolment 
and sustainable practices. Utilities is a heavily regulated industry and will often 
require support from PPPs, subsidies, grants and various schemes to be 
operationally feasible, given the price caps and heavy capital requirements.  
In the EU, there has been pressure on national governments for energy and 
water practices to be more sustainable, and various schemes have been 
launched to support these goals. Terna Energy, like Solaria Energia, took 
advantage of these subsidies and scaled their operations alongside their 
respective government's backing and support. We also noticed Terna Energy 
had a reactive approach to utilities growth, which was also common in the 
other subset companies. By reactive, we mean responding to the public sector 
growth ambitions, i.e. scaling their wind farms, ensuring wind farms were in 
non-ecological areas, responding to the government's call for waste 
management by launching two large-scale projects, and entering Poland after 
noticing their government's increased subsidies towards renewable energy.  
In their latest shareholder presentation, they dedicated six of 27 slides to 
discussing various energy and sustainable goals by Greece, Poland and other 
neighbouring countries and how Terna could grow here. Hydrogen, for 
example, was flagged as a potential growth area given Greece's new 
  
161

Hydrogen plan, and it will be interesting to see if Terna Energy responds by 
entering the Hydrogen energy value chain.  
  
162
Terna Energy's debt levels were high, but this is the norm for the utility industry. Rather 
than just focusing on debt to capital, it's better to examine if their profitability and cash 
flow generation can support the interest payments.  
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Debt/
Capital
54.0%
51.3%
55.9%
58.6%
65.5%
67.5%
67.6%
70.0%
66.1%
69.9%
EBIT / 
Interest 
Exp.
2.2x
1.6x
1.7x
2.2x
1.8x
2.5x
2.0x
1.9x
4.7x
4.2x
EBIT 
Margin 
27.8%
25.1%
27.8%
32.6%
27.0%
39.6%
39.6%
40.0%
37.6%
29.8%
Rev 
growth 
62.8%
12.6%
13.4%
25.5%
13.6%
22.6%
5.6%
2.4%
(16.9%)
63.0%
EBIT 
growth
48.3%
1.6%
25.3%
47.6%
(6.0%)
79.7%
5.4%
3.6%
(21.8%)
29.2%

Real Estate  
Outperformers: 13 companies  
Real estates is the largest asset class in the world but it was not until the 1960s 
in the US and the early 2000s in the rest of the world that it became an asset 
class within equities. The listed real estate industry had 13 outperformers 
(2.9% of the subset group) over the decade, which was only better than 
utilities and energy. The real estate industry was the second biggest 
underperformer when compared to its representation versus the broader 
market (7.1% of total market listings).  
There are reasons for this. REITs, which represents 35% of all real estates 
listing, are not suited for capital appreciation purposes but rather income 
generation. To maintain a REIT status, companies must pay at least 90% of 
their taxable income to shareholders, making reinvestment opportunities and 
capital appreciation goals a lot more difficult and there were no traditional 
REITs in the subset group.  
We broadly classify the real estate industry into four segments;  
•
REITs (residential, non-residential and diversified) 
•
Real estate operating companies (residential and non-residential operators 
and lessors) 
•
Real estate development (developers, cemetery subdividers  and land 
subdividers) 
•
Real estate services (agents, brokers, appraisers, title services and 
condominium associations) 
The real estate industry was quite skewed as every company came from just 
the operating (9 companies) and development (4 companies) segment. In the 
development segment, each had very different focus areas. Lifestyle 
Communities Limited focused on affordable homes for retired Australians 
across its 18 communities. Phat Dat Real Estate, on the other hand, focused 
on luxury apartments in Vietnam. We reviewed the investment case in Phat 
Dat and explored how asset value calculations play a significant role in real 
estate investing.  
The companies were dominated by four Israeli operators in the real estate 
operating companies segment. Over the past decade, Israel's real estate 
  
163

prices increased the most globally (346%), and the asset value of many 
operators increased as a result. Both Prashkovsky and Y.H. Dimri focused more 
on luxury apartments and benefitted from the robust demand for holiday 
reserves in resort cities like Netanya, Israel.  
There were also attractive operators in the non-residential segment. Argan 
was a beneficiary of the transformation the e-commerce industry has had on 
premium logistics centres in France and counts Carrefour and L'Oreal as some 
of its many customers. In self-storage, the demand for space in North America 
was more resilient than the broader real estate asset class during the decade. 
StorageVault, the continent's best-performing real estate stock, now has 238 
storage locations with 11.2 million rentable square feet.  
Some of these non-residential segments, like logistics, will likely become more 
correlated with the broader economy, given the increased demand and 
integration with the retail industry and, thus, consumer spending. However, 
logistics operators like Argan in France and Mega Or Holdings in Israel proved 
they were skilled acquirers and logistics warehouse developers, and we 
reviewed Argan's investment case.  
  
164

Phat Dat Real Estate - Growth in Vietnam’s real estate 
Return: 1,291% 
Phat Dat Real Estate (PDR) is a Vietnamese real estate group that invests in 
and develops real estate projects in the high-end segment, primarily in Ho Chi 
Minh City (HCMC) housing, apartments and resorts. The group was founded 
by its current chairman, Nguyen Van Dat, in 2004 after years of experience 
trading goods in HCMC, Vietnam.   
PDR's first independent project commenced in 2006 with the EverRich 1 in 
District 11, HCMC and was completed in 2009. The EverRich 1 was an 
apartment project with a construction area of 85,645 m² and housed 300 
apartments across two adjacent buildings of 20 floors each (5 floors reserved 
for commercial services). The EverRich project benefitted from its location and 
proximity to the Tan Son That Airport, the busiest airport in Vietnam and was 
ideal for the upper class in HCMC. Driven by this success, follow-up projects 
such as the EverRich 2 and EverRich 3 commenced and were completed in 
2014 and 2016, respectively. EverRich 2 had a total area of 112,585 m² for 
3,125 apartments.  
 
Beyond the EverRich projects, PDR has invested in and developed residential 
projects like Phat Dat Bau Ca, its first project beyond HCMC. Its two main 
current projects include the Nhon Hoi Ecotourism City, an 800,000 m² (land 
area) residential and mixed-use apartment area, and Astral City, a 320,000 m² 
apartment and office space project in the Binh Duong province, HCMC. PDR 
  
165
Images: The EverRich project in HCMC (left) and the Phat Dat Bau Ca 
residential area in Quang Nai City (right). (company website)

also occasionally engage and develop projects with PPP structures, such as 
the Phan Dinh Phung Sports Center in HCMC.  
Investment Case 
Vietnam  
Vietnam has seen rapid demographic and social change over the past two 
decades. Its GDP grew from $31 billion in 2000 to $271 billion in 2020 as it 
shifted from a centralised economy to a mixed economy. Its population living 
under $5.5 per day has steadily declined over the years. FDI has seen strong 
inflows, and rapid urbanisation has been supported by the promotion of 
industrialisation and the creation of job opportunities. 
These factors, coupled with tourism growth mainly from the Chinese and 
South Korean tourists, and the relaxation in foreign home ownership policy, 
have boosted its real estate sector. In HCMC, apartment prices increased by 
90% between 2017 and 2020 due to high demand from Vietnamese citizens 
and foreign investors (foreigners are allowed to own up to 30% of total units in 
new apartment developments).  
PDR 
Developers generally take the highest risk and receive the most significant 
rewards in real estate, which explains why some of the best performers within 
real estates were developers like PDR. PDR's developer model is also slightly 
riskier within the developer spectrum as they focus on complex apartments 
with high-end structures and a concentrated portfolio of projects. The capital 
requirements are also higher, and rewards see a lengthier lag time, typically 
only after completion. In 2011, revenues plummeted by 92%, while operating 
earnings fell into losses and remained subdued until 2014, after the 
completion of the EverRich 2 project.  
These periods of lower revenues but robust project pipelines are typically the 
most favourable times to examine the investment cases of real estate 
developers because many market participants project current financials and 
disregard looking into the quality and potential of ongoing projects from a 
future earnings and valuation view. By 2016, PDR's market capitalisation had 
fallen to VND 2.5 trillion, 70% below its IPO peak despite the inventory value 
  
166

of VND 4.7 trillion from just the EverRich 2 project alone (62% of total 
inventory value in 2016). With a total of 3,125 apartments, we estimate the 
average flat may have fetched between VND 3-3.5 billion per flat.  
PDR paid down its debt and maintained a debt-free balance sheet over the 
following two years with profits generated from the EverRich 3 project. Guided 
by its strict reinvestment policy, which we believe is vital for successful 
developers, PDR took on some debt to bid at auctions for the current pipeline 
of projects like Ecotourism City and Bac Ha Thanh.  
Although debt levels were sometimes high over the ten years, PDR showed 
fairly good capital allocation. They only relied on the issuance of new shares 
twice, in 2015 (VND 650 billion) and 2021 (VND 1.16 trillion). Dividends were 
also only paid twice, with most earnings used to finance interest payments to 
bondholders or reinvested into new projects that could earn a higher return 
on capital for shareholders. In more recent years, PDR has diversified into 
more projects with the purchase of land banks beyond HCMC into second-tier 
cities in Vietnam like Da Nang, Quang Ngai and Binh Dinh.  
These new projects and diversification have paid off, and PDR earned an 
operating earnings + investment income of VND 2.6 trillion, a value greater 
than its market capitalisation in 2016.  
Lesson 
PDR, like many concentrated developers, are always tricky to value given the 
cyclicality of earnings and dependence on big projects, making past financial 
data almost useless in valuations. Its most times more essential to understand 
the potential demand for future inventory and projects in developments and 
the possible macro and micro risks involved, such as low occupancy rates in 
low-density regions, projected apartment sale prices and occupancy rate 
projections. These broader factors were important for PDR because Vietnam's 
wider economy and investor and home ownership demand in its core cities, 
such as HCMC, was robust.  
Investors also need to ask qualitative questions about management, such as; 
do they have a track record of executing similar projects? Are they getting 
quality deals with a high investment return, including in auction-based 
  
167

contracts? Are their minority stakes paying off? Is the performance and 
execution in line with management ambitions?  
The best investment opportunity in PDR came in 2014 after the EverRich 2 
project was completed and handed to residents. By then, it was already clear 
that the EverRich 2 was a success, and PDR would be able to profit from the 
project and invest in other ongoing projects such as the EverRich 3. Despite 
this, its share price was mute for years, with the P/BV falling below 1x. 
Lastly, for non-real estate specialists, reviewing the quality of projects of this 
complex scale may sometimes be difficult, but alternative data such as 
industry blogs and awards can make this much more accessible. PDR's 
projects were rated highly and awarded by various groups like the Vietnam 
Property Awards, Top 10 Developers by BCI Asia and Vietnam Global Bank & 
Finance. 
  
168

Argan SA - A market leader in logistics real estate 
Return: 1,044% 
Argan is a French real estate company specialising in developing and renting 
premium warehouses predominantly for major French companies. The real 
estate group was founded in 1993 by its current chairman, Jen-Claude Le Lan, 
whose family has a 40.3% stake in the company. Argan currently owns a 
portfolio of 90 warehouses - 75 logistics hubs and 12 fulfilment centres with a 
total surface area of 3,265,000 m². 33% of total assets are within the Ile de 
France region, the most populous region in France. Argan is an integrated 
player that works throughout the development stage from land search to 
construction and also collects rental income from its clients.  
Argan mainly serves consumer brands that own the goods stored (77% of 
clients) like Carrefour, L'Oreal, Casino and logistics specialists (23% of clients) 
like DHL, FM logistic, and GXO Logistics, which may be single-client or multi-
client in nature. It currently has a 99% occupancy rate with an average fixed 
lease term of 5.9 years. Its top three clients Carrefour (31%), FM logistic (8%) 
and Casino (7%), represent 46% of annual rental income, while its top 12 
clients represent 77% of annual rental income.  
Investment Case  
The French logistics real estate market has attracted global real estate 
operators in recent years, from Logicor, Europe’s leading developer of logistics 
real estate with over 13.7 million m² of warehouse space, to the US Prologis 
REITs, who now operate warehouse and distribution centres in cities like Paris, 
Marseille and Lille. One of the biggest drivers for this has been the rise of e-
commerce, a market where France is currently Europe’s second-largest market, 
led by its many fashion houses and brands. The rise of e-commerce has 
increased the demand for specialised premium warehouses due to the need 
for agility and speed with inventory management.  
Among all 13 companies from the real estate subset, Argan was the only 
specialised logistics group to have returned more than 1,000% over the past 
ten years and two key reasons have contributed to its outperformance. 
  
169

First, Argan controls the entire value chain from the design of warehouse 
properties to rental management, which is slightly different from many other
players. The value chain control allows Argan to provide premium and tailored 
warehouses per client specifications and needs. Warehouses have become 
much more technical, and building a big square box does not cut it for top 
clients anymore. Various factors affect the profitability of warehouses, from 
location and proximity to end customers, safety and regulation scope, size, 
quality and innovation within facilities and rental policy. These are all things 
Argan understood well and are central to its strategy of delivering premium 
warehouses to its customers like Carrefour and L'Oréal.  
Second, its operational track record, focus and scale make Argan a top choice 
for clients, which provides more negotiation power during rental negotiations. 
Argan solely focuses on logistics warehouses, and a third of its warehouse 
locations are in the Ile de France region (Paris), the most crucial French region 
for consumer-oriented clients. The group also operates various warehouses in 
other areas within France, increasing its potential offerings to clients wanting 
to work with a limited number of landlords. Customers like Carrefour, FM 
Logistics, Geodis, Auchan and L'Oreal each rent more than three warehouse 
sites from Argan, and we believe the trend of companies sticking with leading 
operators is likely to increase over the future. 
Annual rental income has grown from €44 million in 2011 to €157 million in 
2021 (13.6% CAGR) over the decade. Its (net asset value) NAV also grew from 
€195 million to €2,070 million during the same period (26.6% CAGR). Its 
balance sheet was also de-leveraged, and debt/NAV fell from 2.58x to 1.07x 
as profits grew. 
  
170
Images: A third of Argan’s projects are within the Ile de France region (Paris) which 
supports its clients concentrated here like L’Oreal and Carrefour (right). (annual report) 

Lesson 
There are two key areas to assess when analysing non-residential real estate 
companies. First is the discount or premium to NAV and also the potential 
growth in NAV. We want to invest when there is a significant discount to the 
NAV and when there's potential for NAV growth over time. Although Argan's 
NAV was a steady grower, the best periods were during steeper discounts 
between its market capitalisation and NAV. In 2009, its market capitalisation 
had reached a -53% discount to NAV, and its share price doubled within the 
following two years. In late 2012, the discount to NAV again increased, and its 
share price similarly doubled within the next couple of years.  
From a NAV growth view, investors need to assess the quality of its asset class, 
client type, management capital allocation and growth strategy. Argan took a 
concentrated and premium model and focused on growing its NAV over the 
years by focusing on high-quality relationships and delivering its premium 
warehouses according to client needs. This focus on high-quality relationships 
proved well, as retailer clients like Carrefour selected Argan as their sale and 
leaseback partner in 2019. This, coupled with industry tailwinds, increased the 
demand for sale-leaseback deals among retailers such as Carrefour, and 
fulfilment centres by e-commerce enabled companies further boosted Argan's 
growth over the decade. 
  
171

Consumer Discretionary  
Outperformers: 47 companies 
The consumer discretionary industry represented 11.3% of all listed companies 
and was 10.5% (47 companies) of the subset group, thus, just slightly 
underperforming. Consumer discretionary tends to be one of the more 
popular sectors given the scale of recent success stories like Amazon, Tesla, 
and MercadoLibre. The investing school of "buy what you know" means many 
retail investors gravitate toward these 
companies, given the role consumer 
products play in society.  
There are four consumer discretionary 
sub-segments; 
•
Consumer durables and apparel (17 
companies) 
•
Automobiles and auto components 
(14 companies) 
•
Retailing (10 companies) 
•
Consumer services (6 companies) 
The consumer durables and apparel 
segment produced the most companies, 
with 17 companies. The segment was dominated mainly by Asian companies, 
with India alone representing nine companies. The Indian consumer 
companies benefitted from the 83% rise in Indian per capita spending during 
the decade as its economy grew rapidly. Take KPR Mill Limited Limited, the 
best performer in the segment with a return of 7,271%. KPR Mill capitalised on 
the growth in Indian disposable income as it expanded into developing its 
own relatively premium brands like FASO in underwear and athleisure 
products.  
Beyond India, there was a diverse range of consumer durables companies. In 
Israel, Maytronics patented automated swimming pool sensors boosted its 
market share and profitability as its earnings compounded by 24% over the 
decade. There were a few turnarounds too. Sony Group, the Japanese 
conglomerate, was the biggest surprise in the subset list. Its shares had 
  
172
21%
13%
36%
30%
Automobiles and components
Consumer durables and apparel
Consumer services
Retailing 

declined by -80% in the years leading into 2012 as its consumer electronics 
and gaming division struggled. Another turnaround was Games Workshop, 
the only non-Asian company within this segment, which provided an excellent 
case study of how management can unlock value when bureaucracy is cut and 
have their ear closer to the core customers.  
The second segment was automobiles and auto components, with 14 
outperformers. Again, India led this segment, with nine of the 14 companies. 
These companies had benefitted from the increased outsourcing of 
automotive manufacturing to India. In tires, there was Balkrishna Industries. In 
auto lighting, we had Minda Industries, and in precision components, there 
was Sundram Fasteners. Outside India, two companies particularly stood out, 
BYD Motors and Tesla. We explored Tesla and the rise of electric vehicles in 
our case study below.  
In consumer retailing, there were ten outperformers led by retail 
conglomerates like Amazon and MercadoLibre. One would have thought 
more opportunities came from online retailers, but we were surprised to see 
both Amazon and MercadoLibre among the least performers within the subset 
list and a more significant share of physical retailers than pure-play online 
retailers. Geographically, retailing was more diversified than other consumer 
segments. In China, there was China Tourism Group which operates duty-free 
shops in Chinese airports. In the UK, we had JD Sports, one of the leaders in 
sports apparel retailing. JD Sports performance was a mixture of valuations 
and growth; earnings compounded by 31% over the decade while its 
multiples traded at 3.89x EV/EBIT in 2012.  
Japan was not left out, and here, Nojima Corporation, a home appliances and 
electronics retailer with over 250+ stores across Japan and, more recently, in 
Southeast Asia, benefitted from its low valuations and acquisition of ITX 
Group. Nojima’s shareholders paid just 0.07x EV/Revenue (4.64x PE ratio) in 
2012 for shares.  
Finally, the consumer services segment, where hotels, restaurants and other 
leisure businesses sit, had the smallest subset representation with just six 
companies. These business models are often more susceptible to economic 
shocks and recessions and have lower-end margins due to their asset-heavy 
real estate and the CAPEX needed for operations. One of the two restaurants 
on the subset list, Create restaurants holdings, a Japanese operator of Izakaya 
  
173

bars, ramen and food court brands, realised it couldn't adopt the same model 
as other Japanese major operators and then grew via a "multi-brand and 
multi-location" model. Create restaurants prioritised bringing "the brand to 
the location" rather than the "location to the brand", which boosted physical 
sales and allowed the group to centralise and manage its costs better than 
peers across its 900+ outlets. This strategy worked well for Create restaurants 
as it compounded its earnings by 16% between 2011-2019.  
The more attractive consumer services companies were in less cyclical areas 
like gambling and live casinos, and here, the Australian operators, Aristocrat 
Leisure and Jumbo Interactive dominated the segment.  
We explore two consumer discretionary case studies, ANTA Sports in the 
Chinese sports apparel market and Tesla's leadership in electric vehicles.  
  
174

Case Study 
ANTA Sports - The Chinese leader in sports apparel  
Return: 1,307% 
The western world is mainly aware of the domination of sports apparel brands 
like Nike and Adidas, but in China, a few Chinese brands are giving both 
brands a run for their money. One of them is ANTA Sports, the world's third 
largest sports apparel brand.  
ANTA Sports was founded by its current chairman and CEO, Ding Shizhong, in 
early 1991. Beyond the ANTA brand, ANTA Sports owns other brands, 
including the Chinese franchise of FILA and FILA KIDS, Descente, and the 
outdoor brand Kolon Sports, among others. ANTA started by manufacturing 
products for other brands that wanted to produce shoes in China. As ANTA 
gained experience in branding and the overall process, they stopped making 
shoes for other brands, and by 2001, ANTA had expanded beyond shoes into 
a comprehensive sportswear and apparel brand. After its IPO in 2007, ANTA 
acquired FILA from BeLLE in 2009 and later expanded into more FILA 
divisions, such as FILA KIDS in 2015 and FILA FUSION in 2018.  
FILA now represents 44% of the group's total sales, while ANTA represents 
49% of total sales. Other brands, such as Descente, make up the rest. ANTA 
employs an omnichannel strategy with direct-to-consumer (36% of revenue), 
e-commerce (34% of revenue) and traditional wholesale (30% of revenue) in 
2021. Although ANTA (9,403 stores) is larger from a sales view, FILA (2,054 
stores) generates more profits for the group due to its higher pricing points.  
Its top brand ambassadors are homegrown Olympians like Lü Xiaojun, Wu 
Dajing, and Eileen Gu and international NBA stars like Klay Thompson and 
Gordon Hayward. FILA also has ambassadors beyond sports, like Chinese 
actors like Huang Jingyu and Cai Xukun.  
Investment Case 
The Chinese growth story has been central to ANTA's achievement. Decades 
of rapid economic growth lifted over 750 million from extreme poverty, and as 
incomes grew, Chinese consumer spending on goods and services increased. 
  
175

China's product competitiveness also improved during the period, and 
consumer industries that had heavily relied on importation began seeing 
homegrown entrepreneurs develop competitive goods and services to take on 
their foreign rivals.  
Today, ANTA Sports has the same market capitalisation as Adidas $30 billion. 
Although ANTA commands one of the industry-leading growth and 
profitability profiles, its financials have not always been as great. The problems 
started after the 2008 summer Olympics in China when many mass-market 
brands were operating and discounting prices to dominate the sportswear 
segment. ANTA, having just acquired the Chinese operations of FILA in 2009, 
grew its number of stores too quickly, which led to significant discounts on 
items to manage the retail inventory. Over 600 stores were later closed, and 
operating earnings fell by -22% between 2011 and 2013, ending 2013 with an 
operating profit margin of 20.5%, a four-year low.  
Management soon launched a turnaround plan, and by 2014, ANTA was the 
first local brand to see positive results in its revenue and profits growth. 
ANTA's position in brand prestige is less than some Chinese peers, like Li 
Ning and western brands like Nike and Adidas. ANTA has mainly focused on 
dominating the mass-market segment in China, primarily targeting the lower-
middle class. That said, recent basketball lines such as its KT line and its 
women’s GT line seem to be upscaling in recent years.  
E-commerce has been more ingrained in ANTA's operations than in its 
western counterparts. E-commerce via platforms like JD, T-mall and 
Pinduoduo and its e-commerce stores now account for 34% of ANTA sales 
  
176
Images: ANTA makes most of its money from its ANTA stores (left) and FILA (right) brand. 
(annual report) 

and has allowed them to gain a cost advantage, especially in Chinese tier 1 
cities. This also proved vital in 2020 as ANTA was one of the few sportswear 
and apparel that managed to grow revenue and gross profits despite the 
pandemic effects. Adidas, for example, saw its revenue and operating profits 
fall by -22% and -72%, respectively.  
Over the past ten years, revenue and operating profits have compounded by 
18% while maintaining EBIT margins of at least 20% during the decade. In 
2012, ANTA Sports shares traded at just 0.6x EV/Revenue (2.5x EV/EBIT) and 
is now valued at 4.3x EV/Revenue (17.1x EV/EBIT) in 2022.  
Lesson 
A significant percentage of the opportunities we assessed in the consumer 
discretionary industry were during actual fundamental problems. Only one 
company in the consumer durables and apparel segment grew revenues 
greater than 20%, indicating some outperformance came from multiple 
expansions. It is easy to look back in hindsight and claim one would have 
invested, but the reality is much more difficult given the headlines and 
negativity one may see on the news.  
After studying these consumer brands like Sony and ANTA Sports, we have 
identified some mental models to support these consumer turnaround 
frameworks. The goal here as an investor is to ensure the turnaround is easy to 
achieve. So what makes an easy turnaround? 
1.
The underlying company is still profitable even during fundamental 
problems, and its debt relative to cash, assets and earnings is not in 
excess. 
2.
Key rivals are also struggling and may thus indicate an industry-wide 
problem. 
3.
In cases where the brand value or prestige is damaged, the damage is less 
when compared to peers. 
4.
Management is aware of the problems and has identified an actionable 
plan to solve the issues. 
5.
The shares are incredibly cheap when compared to their price before 
operational issues. 
  
177

Before the early 2010s issues, ANTA sports had compounded its revenue and 
operating profits by 48% and 68% CAGR, respectively. Its shares fell by -75% 
even though it achieved an operating profit margin of 20%, far higher than 
loss-making peers like Li Ning (Li Ning had a loss margin of -30% during that 
period). International peers like Nike and Adidas similarly struggled with 
growth during this period and had lower margins. Being profitable while 
owning an attractive asset like FILA China gave ANTA more potential for 
growth during the industry recovery.  
ANTA was also debt-free, and a third of its market capitalisation was in cash 
before the issues, unlike peers like Li Ning, which gave its management the 
financial flexibility to cut stores and stomach the effects of short-term 
problems. With relative multiples reaching a low of 5x PE ratio or 2.5x EV/EBIT 
and a TAM as big as the growing Chinese consumer market, ANTA Sports 
certainly met all five parameters to look for in a consumer turnaround 
opportunity.  
  
178
ANTA Sports struggled in 2012, but investors who checked competitors like Li Ning’s income 
statements would have noticed ANTA was in an even better position despite the struggles.  
ANTA Sports valuation averaged just 4.6x EV/EBIT in 2012. This was a gift for shareholders!  
¥ m
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
Revenue
4,627
5,875
7,408
8,905
7,623
7,281
Cost Of 
Goods Sold
2,778
3,402
4,238
5,142
4,730
4,242
Gross Profit
1,849
2,473
3,171
3,762
2,893
3,039
Op costs
918
1,078
1,433
1,750
1,331
1,471
EBIT
931
1,395
1,738
2,012
1,562
1,568
EV/EBIT
28.94x
14.20x
18.07x
10.97x
4.62x
8.70x
EBIT Margin 
%
20.1%
23.7%
23.5%
22.6%
20.5%
21.5%
Net Income 
Margin %
19.3%
21.3%
20.9%
19.4%
17.8%
18.1%

Tesla - Lessons on unproﬁtable growth  
Return: 12,752% 
Tesla was founded in 2003 by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning, and in 
2004, Elon Musk, its current CEO, joined as a shareholder before taking the 
leadership role in 2008. Its core business is focused on manufacturing and 
selling electric vehicles, while supplementary business segments include 
energy storage solutions. Tesla became the first commercially viable electric 
vehicle with its Tesla Roadster, and by the end of 2012, it had shipped 2,450 
Tesla roadsters. Tesla also made its patented powertrain components for other 
automobile groups like Daimler AG and Toyota. Manufacturing was 
predominantly in North America (it acquired its Tesla Factory from Toyota), and 
its production ramped up over the following years with the Model S and 
Model X.    
In 2015, Tesla entered the energy storage market after unveiling its Powerwall 
and Powerpack battery packs. 2019 saw the opening of its gigafactory in 
China, and Tesla also acquired several smaller companies to bolster its 
expertise in automation. There are now three more gigafactories (two in the 
US and one in Germany), accelerating the production of all five Tesla models.  
Investment Case 
Tesla was among the three largest companies in the overall subset by market 
capitalisation and was also the tenth best-performing company over the 
decade. Among the companies we assessed, Tesla was the trickiest to have 
valued. First, Tesla was unprofitable every year from 2008 until 2018, amassing 
-$4.6 billion in operating losses. This was very different from other case studies 
  
179
Images: Tesla started with the luxury Tesla Roadster and then moved into the mass-
market auto segments which provide more scale. 

where profitability was present even in lower-margin industries like airlines. 
Only four operating companies showed consecutive years of unprofitability 
between 2012 and 2018. Second, when it finally became profitable in 2019, 
the market quickly realised this as its share price gained more than 690% in a 
year.  
In hindsight, Tesla was the perfect investment over the past decade, but even 
after studying its past financials and annual reports, it was difficult for us to 
pinpoint an exact period when Tesla looked like a long-term winner. In 2012, 
debt levels were extremely high (78% debt/capital), and in 2015 growth 
slowed, losses piled up (-18% EBIT margin), and the company was again on 
the brink of bankruptcy. In 2019, another period its share price aggressively 
fell, its model 3 had production problems, and financials were again at 
significant risk. 
Lesson - Finding value in loss making companies 
Today, the private market appetite for companies of Tesla's business 
economics (pre-2019), where profitability is massively sacrificed for long-term 
growth, has dramatically increased. It's irrelevant for us to debate if this 
strategy will last forever because it's clear that wonderful businesses like 
Amazon and Tesla can similarly be created with this model of sacrificing 
profitability for growth. But for every success story of this nature, tens of 
companies fail, and it's vital we explore why some like Tesla succeeded. Our 
goal here is to increase our chances of success by asking the right questions 
when analysing companies. For these high-growth and unprofitable 
companies like Tesla pre-2019, we created a seven-step questionnaire that 
could direct you into making a better investment decision. 
1.
Who else serves their purpose to society? Why is this purpose relevant?  
2.
What special sauce or innovation do they have over incumbents and other 
startups? 
3.
Why would their secret sauce result in better margins and a larger market 
share than their peers? 
4.
Is the core product addressable market big enough? 
5.
Can future growth be explosive? 
6.
Why is the current management the right group to challenge incumbents 
and provide this service or product? 
  
180

7.
If 1-6 have positive answers, apply the profit margins of incumbents. Is the 
valuations justified? 
Question 1 
Tesla's purpose for society is to accelerate the transport industry's transition to 
sustainable energy. There are two areas here; transportation and sustainable 
energy. In 2012, there were hundreds of established automotive companies, 
but none were creating electric vehicles at a commercially viable scale until 
the Tesla roadster. The transport industry represents around 30% of global 
carbon emissions, and road transport alone represents 72% of transportation 
emissions, so it was clear Tesla's purpose could potentially create enormous 
value for society and also receive the backing of many stakeholders like 
governments via subsidies or engineers eager to solve a big problem for 
civilisation. Had Tesla's purpose been a product or service with substantial 
negative externalities like smoking or alcohol, it's unlikely we would have 
witnessed such government or private funding support that assisted the 
company during the difficult years.  
Question 2 and 3 
To understand the secret sauce of a consumer brand, investors need to assess 
it from two angles; the customer lens and the competitor lens. For the 
consumer, Tesla pretty much established and led a new category in the 
automotive sector. By 2015, BMW, Daimler, Ford and Nissan followed suit and 
entered the EV market, while others like Toyota and Ford commenced their 
hybrid versions. These moves meant the first mover advantage was insufficient 
to guarantee future success. From a competitor lens, mass-market electric 
vehicles need to achieve;  
•
long range and recharging flexibility 
•
energy efficiency 
•
cost-effectiveness relative to car quality  
•
high performance without compromising on design or functionality.  
Tesla's Model S in 2013 was very competitive compared to combustion 
vehicles. Before the Model S, Daimler and Toyota (RAV4 EV) had incorporated 
Tesla's electric powertrain due to its competitiveness. From a functionality and 
design view, the Model S prioritised storage space; 31 cubic feet, versus the 
BMW 5 series, 14 cubic feet. The Model S also had premium luxury features 
  
181

like a touch screen driver interface, wireless connectivity, and customisable 
infotainment, further differentiating it from its peers.  
Tesla's process with sales and marketing was also quite different. Tesla 
historically utilised word of mouth more than expensive advertising campaigns 
like other auto companies did. They didn't sell cars through dealerships, which 
improved its potential unit economics and its relationship and contact with the 
end consumer. Initially, this didn’t seem like an advantage but the rise of the 
internet and social media made the direct-to-consumer relationship a lot 
easier for consumer brands to manage.  
Question 4 and 5  
The initial Tesla roadster competing in the luxury market had a much smaller 
addressable market, and the market dynamics would have made competing 
there much more complicated than mass-market. The transition to mass-
market with the arrival of the Model S in 2012 not only provided the TAM 
scale but also allowed Tesla to compete more on its other strengths from its 
direct-to-consumer strategy, functionality, and performance advantage made 
for the everyday auto consumer. In 2014, 90 million vehicles were produced 
globally (4.2 million in the USA), and Tesla had only delivered 57,000 of its 
Model S, just 1.3% of the USA market share. Had this market share been 10%, 
Tesla's growth potential would be much less, making its future potential much 
less attractive. 
Another factor that contributed to Tesla's success is its global reach, even from 
the earlier years. By 2014, sales outside the US had already reached 54% of 
total revenue, thanks to strong demand and favourable electric vehicle 
policies in European countries like Norway, the Netherlands, and China. The 
Model S was also the first electric vehicle in Norway to top monthly car sales 
charts. With Tesla's factory additions in Germany and China, we can only 
expect its international sales to play an even more influential role on its 
bottom line.  
Question 6 
Many books and articles have been published about Tesla's CEO, but 
understanding if the management is the right fit goes beyond just the CEO, 
and leading indicators like operational progress and engineering and technical 
  
182

prowess come in handy here. Tesla had even attracted Daimler to purchase a 
10% stake in the EV maker, and many executives from rivals like Aston Martin 
and Ford had moved to Tesla during the early production days.  
Question 7 
Assuming one thought Tesla could survive and applied the average 7.5% 
profit margin an auto manufacturer makes, this would have put Tesla's EV/EBIT 
in 2018 at 29x. For a company growing 50% per year, this did not seem too 
crazy, given the advantages it created from its technology to brand power and 
sales process were becoming clear. Today, Tesla's margins are much higher 
than its peers (EBIT margin of 12% achieved in 2021), and investors in 2012 
have achieved a return of 12,752% (62.5% CAGR) over the decade. 
Sometimes, outperformers require one to look beyond the near-term 
financials and focus more on the story and potential.  
  
183

  
184
In hindsight, Tesla was undervalued in 2015 when its market cap was valued at around $35 
billion. Tesla later made more in operating profits in 2021 than its 2015 revenue as 
shareholders paid just 5x its 6-year actual forward earnings.  
For companies like Tesla, its more helpful to focus on the seven-step questionnaire guide 
to understand the potential for growth and long-term profitability.
$ m
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Revenue
4,046
7,000
11,759
21,461
24,578
31,536
53,823
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
3,123
5,401
9,536
17,419
20,509
24,906
40,217
Gross 
Profit
924
1,599
2,223
4,042
4,069
6,630
13,606
Op costs
1,640
2,245
3,855
4,295
3,989
4,679
7,083
EBIT
(717)
(646)
(1,632)
(253)
80
1,951
6,523
EV/
Revenue
8.80x
6.99x
6.83x
4.96x
2.63x
10.54x
20.08x
EBIT 
Margin %
(17.7%)
(9.2%)
(13.9%)
(1.2%)
0.3%
6.2%
12.1%

Consumer Staples  
Outperformers: 21 companies 
The consumer staples industry produced 21 outperformers (4.7% of the subset 
list), underperforming its market representation of 6.5%. This contrasted with 
the 2002-2012 decade when consumer staples represented 13.3% of the 300 
outperformers. One of the reasons behind this contrast was the financial crisis. 
Staples are more defensive, less cyclical, and represent necessities like 
groceries, food and beverages, and household products. These made the 
industry more resilient during the financial crisis; in 2008, the MSCI World 
Consumer Staples Index fell by -23% versus the -42% decline in the MSCI 
World Consumer Discretionary Index. This also impacts the potential recovery; 
staples had less to recover from in comparison to discretionary, thus reducing 
the sector's potential upside during the following decade. 
We break down the consumer staples industry into three segments; 
•
Food, beverage and tobacco (19 companies) 
•
Food and staples retailing (1 company) 
•
Household and personal products (1 company)  
Food, beverage and tobacco staples represent 69% of consumer staples 
which partially explains why it also dominates the outperformers subset. Like 
in consumer discretionary, India had a significant role in the subset list as 
seven of the 19 companies came from the country. It may be tempting to tie 
this success down to India's large and growing market, but the investment 
cases were primarily company-specific, driven by turnarounds and 
management strategy decisions.  
Take Gujarat Ambuja Exports Limited, the Indian agro processor of cotton 
yarn, maize, and glucose syrup. Gujarat Ambuja shifted its focus from oil seed 
extraction to corn processing and also moved into derivative products that 
offered higher margins, like dextrose anhydrate, a maize derivative used in 
pharmaceutical nutrient enhancers. This, alongside the modernization of 
plants in Gujarat and Maharashtra, improved its operating margins and 
business growth- operating margins expanded from 4% to 13%, while debt/
capital decreased from 40% to 9% over the decade. In our case study, we 
explore how another Indian consumer staple, Britannia Industries, India's 
  
185

largest biscuits maker, turned its business around as it regained its market 
leadership in India's confectionary industry. 
Another segment that dominated the food, beverage and tobacco segment 
were the Nordic salmon companies. Two factors fuelled its outperformance. 
First, the price of salmon nose-dived in 2011 due to the market oversupply, 
thus impacting profits and weakening their balance sheets. All four salmon 
outperformers saw their share prices decline by more than 50% during the 
industry downturn which meant the salmon producers started the decade with 
low valuations. The other reason for their outperformance has been the 
growth of salmon due to the increased awareness of its health benefits relative 
to other meat sources, and we explore how SalMar took advantage of this as it 
aggressively expanded its operations during the decade.  
The two companies in the other segments, food and staples retailing and 
household and personal products, were diversified Japanese groups, RIZAP 
Group, a conglomerate in the beauty and apparel industry and Kobe Bussan, 
the operator of Kobe Cook, Japan's largest buffet chain and Gyomu Super, 
one of the country's most loved low-cost supermarkets with over 900 stores. 
Their valuations were very depressed in 2012 because markets panicked 
about Japan's economic growth, falling birth rates and ageing population 
spending on consumer products. Kobe Bussan, for example, had an EV/EBIT 
multiple of just 2.4x and an EV/Revenue of 0.06x. Kobe compounded its 
earnings by 21% and returned 4,466% over the decade. When growth, value 
and excessive market pessimism meet, great returns are created!  
  
186

SalMar - Cost leadership in Norwegian Salmon 
Return: 2,300% 
SalMar is an integrated producer of farmed salmon and was founded in 1991 
by its current chairman, Gustav Witzøe. After acquiring struggling peers 
licenses, SalMar expanded its operations into different areas, such as fish meal 
and herring oil. Today, the group focuses on just salmon farming via its three 
core operational regions in central Norway, northern Norway and Iceland. 
They also own Scottish Sea Farms in partnership with Lerøy Seafood and 
export salmon to over 50 countries with over 198,000 tonnes in harvested 
volume.  
There are various species of salmon fish, but the most commercially available 
is the Atlantic salmon, and salmon farming only became an industry in the 
1980s in Norway and in the 1990s in Chile. Both countries dominate farmed 
salmon production with a 53% and 25% global market share, respectively. 
Salmon requires cold and stable sea temperatures and optimal biological 
conditions. These high geographical and aquatic barriers mean salmon 
farming is limited to only specific regions, preventing potential large scale 
entrants. 
Demand for salmon has risen over the years due to the healthy protein-rich 
content in salmon, but supply largely depends on the efficiency and 
operational conditions of companies like SalMar. While 25% of SalMar's sales 
are in fixed-price contracts, the majority is subject to salmon's market price, 
which may fluctuate depending on demand and supply imbalances. Hence, 
we can refer to the salmon industry as a commodity consumer staple.  
Investment Case 
It was surprising to see four salmon outperformers, so it's crucial we 
understand why the sector did so well during the decade. First, the salmon 
farmers are price takers and compete mainly on quantity and cost 
management. Producers try to control their whole value chain from the 
incubation of broodstock eggs to the harvesting, processing and sales stage. 
While not obvious, innovation is a huge driver to cost competitiveness, and an 
example is the offshore farming technique SalMar established in 2018, which 
  
187

automates the salmon catching to breeding process with minimal continuous 
labour input. 
Going back to 2011, prices of Atlantic salmon fell from an April peak of 44 
NOK per kg to its trough of 18 NOK per kg, driven by the market oversupply. 
During these periods in commodity and cyclical industries, the best operators 
become stronger while the weaker operators become weaker, so the first step 
is to compare the performance of all salmon farmers. Compared to its rivals in 
2010, SalMar had the third best operating margin (33.8%) among all 39 
salmon producers. Peers like Austevoll Seafood had margins less than half of 
SalMar's during the same year. Management attributed their industry-leading 
margins to their focused cost-management strategy and their global sales 
process and reach. Although SalMar's revenue still grew, unlike peers like 
Mowi and Grieg Seafood, its earnings declined by 79% with an operating 
margin of 7% in 2012. This was still among the top ten of 39 producers.  
As prices declined, producers rationalised supply and prices then stabilised 
within the next year. Over the following years, SalMar made many investments 
in current operations and via acquisitions. SalMar upgraded plants like the 
InnovaMar facility, a 17,500 m² harvesting and processing plant with a capacity 
of 150,000 tonnes of salmon. Ten more licenses were acquired in northern 
Norway, at a purchase price of NOK 110 million. SalMar also acquired stakes 
in smaller integrated farms like Villa Organic AS, and by 2015, SalMar's annual 
harvested volume had increased by 50%. At the industry level, the prices of 
salmon improved as demand and export opportunities increased. Unlike other 
  
188
Images: SalMar built the first offshore salmon farm (left) to drive additional cost 
efficiencies. (company website) 
During downturns, commentators voice doom and gloom as they did during the salmon 
downturn in 2011 (right). This is usually the most attractive time to invest. 

meats like chicken and beef, the geographic barriers to entry in salmon keep 
the industry margins much more attractive. 
Overall, SalMar's revenue and operating profits compounded by 16.3% and 
54.5% annualised, respectively, generating an operating margin of 24.6% in 
2021. After the 2011-2012 downturn, SalMar's margins didn’t fall below 20%, 
and as its position within the industry increased, multiples expanded from 1.6x 
EV/Revenue (17.6x EV/EBIT) in 2012 to 5.45x EV/Revenue (20.2x EV/EBIT) in 
2022.  
Lesson  
Like many outperformers in the consumer staples industry, the investment 
opportunity was born during a period of fundamental issues and negative 
market sentiment. For SalMar, its problems were not company specific but 
rather due to the market price for Atlantic salmon. To separate company-
specific from industry issues, you need to compare the financials and 
operations across the whole industry and differentiate the weaker companies 
from the stronger ones. Had you done this with SalMar, it would have been 
clear that its management, cost discipline, and allocation track record were 
superior to its peers.  
The natural barriers to entry also support established players in the salmon 
industry, which explains why the whole industry recovered and four producers 
featured among the outperformers. Even in commodity and cyclical industries, 
moats are important too, and you want to focus on sectors that companies 
can't easily expand into during good times and favourable prices. 
  
189

  
190
SalMar's earnings declined with the industry when salmon prices fell in 2011. During these 
periods, it's essential to differentiate company-specific issues from industry issues and 
cyclical from structural declines.  
Investors who compared SalMar's earnings with its peers would have noticed that SalMar 
was still among the best performers from a profitability perspective, even as return on 
capital declined from 20.6% to 3.2% between 2010 and 2011. 
As you see, EV/EBIT isn't very useful in cyclical industries. When its EV/EBIT looked 
expensive (2012), that was when SalMar was actually cheap, given the decline in earnings.  
It's important to understand this in consumer cyclicals and separate structural declines 
from cyclical declines. 
Kr m
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
Revenue
3,429
3,834
4,205
6,246
7,175
7,304
9,003
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
1,413
2,460
2,168
2,658
3,416
3,624
3,187
Gross 
Profit
2,016
1,373
2,037
3,588
3,759
3,679
5,817
Op. costs
857
1,135
1,405
1,796
1,947
2,206
2,675
EBIT
1,159
238
632
1,792
1,812
1,473
3,142
EBIT 
Margin 
33.8%
6.2%
15.0%
28.7%
25.3%
20.2%
34.9%
Return on 
Capital 
20.6%
3.2%
7.4%
16.4%
14.6%
11.7%
22.5%
Debt/
Capital
43.7%
55.0%
48.7%
36.0%
32.5%
35.6%
28.3%
EV/
Revenue
2.44x
1.99x
1.66x
2.04x
2.08x
2.31x
3.57x
EV/EBIT
7.31x
6.98x
23.95x
11.31x
7.66x
9.14x
14.57x

Britannia Industries - An Indian brand refresh  
Return: 1,264% 
Every year, 5 million retail outlets receive biscuits, bread, creme wafers and 
bakery products from Britannia Industries. India's leading biscuit maker was 
founded in 1892 and is also one of the oldest existing companies in India and 
is currently led by Nusli Wadia under the Wadia Group. Prior to them, the 
ownership of Britannia Industries changed hands a few times. A British 
business group started the group before Peek Freans acquired a controlling 
stake in the 1920s. By the 1980s, ownership had changed to Nabisco Brands 
before the Wadia Group and Danone purchased an equal stake in Britannia.  
Britannia is segmented into three areas; 
•
Bakery: Biscuits, cake, rusk and bread 
•
Dairy: Packaged milk, and value-added dairy products 
•
Adjacent products: Cream wafers, croissants and salted snacks 
Most of its sales are to Indian consumers (95% of sales), while international 
countries like Nepal, Egypt, and Bangladesh represent the rest of the sales. Its 
brand portfolio includes consumer favourites like Good Day, Tiger, 
NutriChoice, Milk Bikis and Marie Gold biscuits. Britannia Industries is the 
second largest listed Indian food and beverage company, behind Nestle India. 
  
191
Images: Britannia Industries is a market leader in the Indian biscuit market. They recently 
expanded into more premium confectionary products like their Toastea and Treat Creme 
wafers (right) 

Investment Case 
Although Britannia has always been among the leaders in the Indian biscuit 
category, its financials have not always been as impressive as they currently 
are. Before the arrival of its current CEO, Varun Berry, an experienced FMCG 
executive, Britannia had struggled to grow earnings due to competition from 
Mondelez and Parle Industries. Between 2008 and 2011, while revenue grew 
by 65%, Britannia did not register any growth in earnings, and its operating 
margin ended the 2011 FY at just 3.8%, down from 7.1% in 2008. Parle 
Industries, Britannia's closest biscuits rival, overtook Britannia in market share 
after its flagship Parle-G biscuits continued to lead the industry growth.  
Before joining Britannia, Varun Berry had built a track record as a turnaround 
specialist after a three-year stint as PepsiCo India’s CEO. In his first interview 
as Britannia's CEO, he highlighted his plan to turn Britannia around and regain 
its market leadership against peers like Parle and Mondelez. Britannia had a 
strong brand and Varun Berry knew its brand wasn't the issue. The issue for 
Britannia was its efficiency and bloated cost structure, and simplifying this was 
central to his initial turnaround strategy.  
Britannia was outsourcing two-thirds of production to contract manufacturers, 
which, although asset-lighter in the short term, was hurting margins over the 
long term. Britannia invested in its manufacturing facilities like the 55,000 sq ft 
Bidadi facility near Bangalore and a capacity of 100,000 tons of biscuit 
manufacturing per year. Its budget was streamlined in marketing and 
advertising and refocused on quality rather than quantity. Its core brands, like 
50:50 and Good Day, increased their presence in sports leagues like the Indian 
Premier League and the Asia Cup T20. More aligned incentives were added to 
the distribution and sales force, and management prioritised rewarding top 
performers in its sales team, boosting the salesforce overall morale. Britannia 
began seeing progress by 2015 as its operating margins doubled between 
2012 and 2015. Product returns and write-offs had decreased, and waste was 
more managed and minimised in its plants.  
Turning its operations around was not enough for management, and the latter 
half of the decade had a different strategy, achieving growth. After identifying 
the potential opportunity, Britannia first mapped out an Indian rural market 
plan to grow market share. Its preferred dealers in the distribution chain grew 
from 8,000 to 25,000 between 2016 and 2021. Britannia prioritised pushing its 
  
192

value products like Tiger in rural markets, which boded well with the lower 
household budgets. Britannia was aware there's a limit to pricing power in 
biscuits, and management decided to expand into more premium snack 
categories in the baked salted snacks, premium cookies, croissants and 
milkshake segments. Its Tetra pack in packaged milkshakes gained a 20% 
market share and was already the second largest brand within a year of 
launch. These premium items provide resilience to the volatile input costs like 
flour, sugar, cashew and milk.  
Overall, Britannia regained its market leadership as it compounded revenue 
and operating profits by 9.9% and 22.4% per year, respectively, over the 
decade, while operating profit margins improved from 4.8% to 14.2% during 
the period. Its multiples also expanded as EV/Revenue grew from 1.1x (24.8x 
EV/EBIT) in 2012 to 5.8x EV/Revenue (40.8x EV/EBIT) in 2022. 
Lesson  
There were many consumer turnarounds in India, and Britannia Industries is a 
classic example of the management and strategy steps needed to revitalise a 
brand. There are easy consumer turnarounds- star brands with fixable 
operational problems, and harder consumer turnarounds which tend to be 
weaker brands with challenging operational issues. When a potential 
turnaround opportunity has been spotted, it's crucial to identify the company's 
position on the consumer turnaround spectrum. For Britannia, its 100+ year 
heritage in India's biscuit market and presence of its core brands meant that 
turning the company's fortunes around didn't require exceptional effort.  
The new management identified the issues and derived a plan to solve them. 
For most consumer turnarounds that return more than 1,000%, the investment 
case does not end at just turnarounds, and the potential to transition into a 
growth company creates significant value. In Britannia's case, management 
drove top line growth by expanding into the rural segment and broadening 
into premium confectionary products. 
  
193

  
194
Britannia’s financial statements depicts the typical turnaround case when debt is high, 
profitability is subdued and growth is low. 
You’re likely to gain more by focusing on the story i.e. why the business declined, what its 
peers and the broader industry is doing, what management have identified in the 
turnaround plan and what leading indicators and metrics you can use to gauge the 
progress.  
Britannia always had a strong brand in India, making a potential consumer turnaround 
easier.  
As you see, the potential return can be great even in turnarounds. Britannia’s operating 
margins improved from 3.1% to 13.3% between 2010 and 2016. Its balance sheet also 
improved, supporting further investments and its growth into premium confectionary 
products.
₹ m
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
Revenue
34,212
37,749
45,931
54,635
61,459
68,372
77,877
83,355
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
24,280
27,391
34,040
39,989
44,200
47,917
47,359
50,554
Gross 
Profit
9,932
10,358
11,891
14,647
17,259
20,455
30,518
32,801
Op. costs
8,019
9,186
10,130
12,004
13,783
15,005
23,260
21,697
EBIT
1,913
1,172
1,761
2,642
3,476
5,451
7,258
11,105
Return 
on 
Capital 
12.1%
7.5%
11.4%
16.6%
21.5%
34.8%
38.4%
38.1%
EBIT 
Margin 
5.6%
3.1%
3.8%
4.8%
5.7%
8.0%
9.3%
13.3%
Total 
Debt/
Capital
27.8%
69.9%
66.4%
59.5%
44.0%
16.2%
11.2%
6.4%
EV/
Revenue
1.25x
1.35x
1.33x
1.27x
1.39x
1.96x
3.96x
4.05x
EV/EBIT
19.81x
36.54x
36.44x
28.69x
24.35x
24.72x
40.54x
31.81x

Financials  
Outperformers: 27 companies  
The financials industry was underrepresented relative to other sectors as it was 
just 6.1% of outperformers, despite representing 12.6% of the overall public 
market. One may think the industry's underperformance was due to the 
financial crisis, but if we adjust the period from the bottom of the financial 
crisis in 2008 to 2018, the number of outperformers only increases from 27 to 
39 companies, which was still underrepresented relative to its industry 
weighting.  
 
We split the financials sector into five 
areas; 
•
Banks (diversified and regional 
banks, thrifts and mortgage 
finance) 
•
Insurance (life and health, property 
and casualty, reinsurance, multi-line 
and insurance brokers) 
•
Capital Markets (asset managers, 
financial exchanges and investment 
banks) 
•
Consumer Finance  
•
Diversified Financial Services 
Banks tend to be the popular allocation 
choice within financials because it represents 36% of the industry. Yet, only two 
banks (7.4% of financials) were represented within the subset, highlighting 
how tough delivering great returns by investing in the banking industry is. 
Banks are under pressure from leaner financial companies across their various 
segments. In the secured and unsecured loans market, consumer finance 
outperformers like goeasy in Canada and Krungthai Card in Thailand compete 
directly with banks for customers. In the asset management segment, banks 
compete with the growing private equity industry in both equity and debt-
funded investment opportunities. Banks are also quite cyclical, and if we 
adjust the period to the bottom of the financial crisis impact (2008-2018), the 
number of outperformers from the banking industry increases to 14 
  
195
4%
7%
19%
22%
48%
Capital Markets
Consumer Finance
Diversified Financial Services
Banks
Insurance

companies, which still underperforms its sub-sector weighting within 
financials.  
The insurance market, which represents 11% of all listed financials, was 
similarly underrepresented as only one pure-play insurer delivered a more than 
1,000% return. The difficulty for insurers with outperformance is that achieving 
strong profitability, fast growth and quality underwriting are typically 
conflicting goals for insurers. For example, a life insurer seeking to grow faster 
will often have to underwrite premiums for riskier customer profiles which can 
also impact long-term profitability and combined ratios. That said, the 
insurance outperformance dilemma didn't stop Bupa Arabia for Cooperative 
Insurance from delivering 1,880% over the ten years. Bupa Arabia benefitted 
from the growing Saudi health insurance market, which happened to be the 
fastest growing worldwide. Bupa Arabia grew its premium and annuity 
revenue four-fold while its loss ratio has consistently been below 85% over the 
ten years.  
The capital markets segment was much more promising and represented 
almost half of all financials outperformers, slightly above its 40% proportion of 
the financials industry. We can broadly split their business models into two; 
companies that earn asset management fees and those that provide their 
services to asset managers. Asset managers aren't the most obvious place to 
search for outperformers, but when managed well with the appropriate 
performance incentives, asset managers can be highly profitable and, in some 
cases, fast-growing.  
The British asset managers, Liontrust and Impax, are good examples of this. 
Between 2015 and 2021, the asset managers earned at least 20% operating 
margins each year. In the Impax case, they have only been loss-making once 
since 2006 and compounded revenue and operating profits by more than 23% 
over the decade. The performance of funds has a significant role in an asset 
manager's bottom line, and it's crucial to examine the strategy and incentives 
when analysing asset managers.  
The asset management service providers have some of the most profitable 
companies in the world. Their business models are less complicated than the 
core asset managers, given the minimal risk they take on assets. When 
managed well, the asset management service providers tend to have sticky 
and recurring revenue streams, and in our case study below, we explore MSCI, 
  
196

one of the most profitable and well-managed financial exchange and data 
companies.  
From an outperformance lens, consumer finance was the second best-
performing financials sub-segment and all but one of the six companies were 
from Asia. India had three companies and was led by the best performing 
financials, Bajaj Finance which returned 7,060% over the decade. Bajaj 
Finance is the lending arm of Bajaj Finserv, another outperformer in the 
diversified financial services segment. Its business operations are split across 
six segments, with consumer finance and home loans being the most 
significant two segments. After the financial crisis, banks had fled from the 
consumer market in India and what seemed like high risks was an opportunity 
for Bajaj Finance as it stepped up its operations and consumer financing 
services during the downturn.  
Today, Bajaj Finance has strengthened its several competitive advantages, 
from its access to consumer data and geographical presence in India to its 
performance-oriented culture in long-term planning and monthly variable pay 
based on key metrics. 
Finally, the diversified financial services segment produced five outperformers 
and we look into Hypoport, one of Germany's leading real estate and credit 
platforms, in our case study. These diversified financial services business 
models are very complex given their multiple revenue segments, and we will 
explore how simplifying the operational analysis can assist with finding future 
outperformers from the segment.  
  
197

MSCI - A growth spinoff  
Return: 1,208% 
Every quarter, global asset managers like us send factsheets to clients with our 
performance compared to benchmarks provided by financial data companies 
like MSCI. In the late 1960s, as investments in public markets beyond the US 
began increasing, Capital International began publishing indexes covering the 
global stock market for non-US markets. In 1986, Morgan Stanley licensed the 
rights to indexes and branded these indexes as the Morgan Stanley Capital 
International (MSCI) indexes.  
MSCI now serves over 6,300 clients in 95 countries. Beyond indexes, the MSCI 
also provides analytics solutions on risk management to portfolio 
management content and services such as BarraOne, Climate Lab Enterprises 
and RiskMetrics, ESG and climate offerings such as its MSCI ESG ratings and 
ratings climate solutions, and its more recent segments in Real Estate. Due to 
the nature of these services, MSCI's revenue is typically recurring subscriptions 
(70% of revenue). There are also asset-based fees where the fees earned are 
linked to the client's assets under management or based on trading volume. 
From a cost view, MSCI ensures its products have a broad scope and are 
relevant to its clients. Hence, MSCI dedicates a significant amount of its costs 
to research, development, and technology capabilities. While barriers to entry 
are low, barriers to success are high, given the network effects created by 
these market indexes.  
Investment Case 
Financial exchanges and index companies have high margins, and MSCI is no 
exception, as the costs to asset managers are almost as certain as paying 
corporate taxes. Among all 108 listed financial exchange listed companies, 77 
of 108 companies are profitable, while 58 of 108 achieve operating profit 
margins above 20%.  
Despite the strong profitability, financial exchanges and data companies have 
not always been popular investment choices in markets. Credit rating agencies 
like Moody's and S&P were at the centre of the financial crisis due to their role 
  
198

in providing inaccurate mortgage security ratings. The market pessimism 
affected the overall industry and valuations declined across the industry.  
The American banks were also under pressure to raise cash; Morgan Stanley 
needed to repay the $10 billion it received under the government bank 
bailout program. Although MSCI was not a credit rating agency, its IPO was 
not very popular, and its stock price declined by -54% within the first year, with 
EV/EBIT falling to a low of 9.3x despite its 32% operating profit margin in 
2008.  
MSCI also had a reputation as the go-to provider of global index products. In 
2008, the then-growing (exchange-traded fund) ETF industry had $119 billion 
linked to the MSCI's equity indices. 55% of Asian and EMEA region ETF 
listings were benchmarked against MSCI indices. Revenue from EMEA and 
Asian clients also represented 46%, and there were around 60 indexes created 
by MSCI, ranging from industry-specific to country-specific indexes. 
The rise of passive investing, the flows to emerging markets and the growth of 
thematic investing also contributed to MSCI's increasing significance in the 
industry. Blackrock, the leader in passive investing, represented 12.7% of 
MSCI's revenue and as long as there’s demand for Blackrock’s passive funds, 
MSCI is guaranteed to make revenue from it. The ETF industry now has over 
$10 trillion under management, and MSCI continues to earn fees from these 
products. Daily indices calculation also grew from 150,000 per day in 2011 to 
267,000 daily in 2021. A more recent growth driver has also been the rise of 
ESG investing, which is a massive engine for MSCI. Its ESG and climate 
division grew by 84% over the last two years.  
Its revenue and operating profit compounded by 8.9% and 13% per year over 
the decade, while operating profit margins expanded from 39% to 54%. As 
profitability increased and sentiment for index providers improved, its 
multiples grew from 5.7x EV/Revenue (15.8x EV/EBIT) or 16.5x EV/Revenue 
(30.8x EV/EBIT).  
Lesson 
For anyone who thought spinoffs could not turn into multi baggers, MSCI is an 
example of this. Some of the best spinoffs occur when the parent company is 
going through financial problems and is desperate to raise cash to meet short 
  
199

term goals or when regulations force larger firms to simplify and reorganise 
their subsidiaries to improve industry competition or quality. In these 
situations, it’s more likely that the subsidiary will get listed at an undervalued 
price, as MSCI did in 2007. The financial crisis also brought investment 
pessimism to index providers as peers like S&P and Moody’s were dealt with 
fines and legal issues. As an investor, it is easier to panic during these 
pessimistic periods but one must focus on the fundamentals. Some questions 
that could have guided you into realising MSCI could rebound from the crisis 
were: 
•
Does MSCI make revenue from credit rating?  
•
Was the ETF industry becoming less relevant?  
•
Was MSCI losing market share in global index provision?  
Network effects aren't just limited to the IT industry, and MSCI is a beautiful 
example of network effects applied in the financial industry. The MSCI brand 
has become synonymous with global investing, given its use as a benchmark 
to asset managers, and as more managers utilise the MSCI data services, it 
becomes more valuable to them and their investors. These hidden 
competitive advantages, coupled with their asset-light model, allow financial 
data providers like MSCI, Easy Money Information Co and Hithink RoyalFlush 
to earn EBIT margins above 50% and deliver more than 1,000% share price 
gains.  
  
200

  
201
MSCI was among the most profitable outperformers that consistently gained margin 
expansion as its EBIT margin expanded from 38.5% in 2012 to 53.9% in 2021.  
  
Adding more users doesn't cost MSCI much; you can notice this with the cost of goods 
sold (COGS) compared to revenue. COGS grew by only 56% during the period, compared 
to the revenue growth of 147%.
$ m
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Rev
827
913
997
1,075
1,151
1,274
1,434
1,558
1,695
2,044
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
230
241
277
268
252
274
287
288
292
359
Gross 
Profit
597
673
720
807
899
1,001
1,147
1,270
1,404
1,685
Op. 
Costs
279
332
383
403
411
421
452
515
520
583
EBIT
318
340
337
404
488
580
695
755
883
1,102
EBIT 
growth
(2.3%)
7.0%
(0.9%)
19.8%
20.8%
18.8%
19.8%
8.7%
17.0%
24.7%
EBIT 
Margin 
38.5%
37.3%
33.8%
37.6%
42.4%
45.5%
48.4%
48.5%
52.1%
53.9%
EV/Rev
5.22x
5.04x
5.25x
6.98x
7.75x
9.27x
11.44x
13.97x
19.10x
25.85x
EV/EBIT
14.47x
13.73x
15.11x
20.30x
19.65x
21.41x
24.68x
29.10x
38.23x
48.74x

Hypoport SE - Innovation in Germany’s mortgage ﬁnancing industry 
Return: 2,066% 
Hypoport is a German group of 21 companies operating across credit, real 
estate and insurance with over 2,000 employees. It was founded in 1954 
under one of its current platforms, Dr. Klein, as a real estate platform. In 2001, 
Ronald Slabke, Hypoport’s current CEO, led a management buyout in 1999 
and merged Dr. Klein with EUROPACE to form Hypoport and then took it 
public in 2007. Dr Klein & Co also expanded into new areas, such as mortgage 
financing for private clients and broker distribution via its Qualitypool GmbH.  
Hypoport is currently segmented into five business segments;  
•
Credit platforms: Hypoport Mortgage and EUROPACE AG are the major 
subsidiaries. EUROPACE is the largest credit platform for financial products 
to private clients in Germany, with 800 partners (banks, insurers) and over 
400,000 annual transactions. 
•
Private Clients: Dr. Klein Privatkunden AG is the core business focusing on 
brokering residential mortgage finance products.  
•
Real Estate: Hypoport has a group of property-related companies and its 
target groups are mortgage lenders and the credit industry. FIO SYSTEMS 
AG provides SaaS solutions for 
housing payment processing and 
insurance claims management. Dr. 
Klein Wowi Finanz serves municipal 
and cooperative housing companies. 
•
Insurance platforms: Within insurtech, 
ePension is a digital platform for 
administering occupational pension 
schemes. Qualitypool provides 
support to small and medium-sized 
financial product distributors in 
insurance brokerage.  
•
Holding: These include non-
operational activities where Hypoport 
may take a joint-venture stake in 
another company.  
  
202
6%
10%
12%
28%
43%
Credit Platforms
Private Clients
Real Estate Platform 
Insurance Platform 
Holding
Hypoport revenue split

Investment Case 
As you can already tell, Hypoport is a highly complex business at first glance. 
This was one of the reasons we selected them for a case study, as it 
demonstrates the nature of many financial companies. Complex business 
models can sometimes be a barrier to entry for investors because many asset 
managers would simply screen these out after reading the first few pages of 
their annual report. To understand businesses like Hypoport, you must first 
segment each business by business drivers and operations, then explore its 
overall capital allocation strategy.  
With Hypoport, we can sum up its business model into a platform that 
simplifies connectivity in the real estate industry. EUROPACE has been central 
to this strategy, so let’s explore its investment case.  
EUROPACE 
EUROPACE serves as a marketplace for mortgage finance, building finance 
products and personal loans by bringing private and cooperative banks with 
product suppliers such as insurers via its platform. In 2021, its total volume of 
transactions had a value of €102.2 billion.  
•
Mortgage finance (83% of volume) 
•
Building finance products (13% of volume)  
•
Personal loans (4% of volume)  
Mortgage financing transactions occur when you want to purchase a new 
home, finance new non-residential building projects, build infrastructure or for 
follow-up refinancing. So any factor affecting these could impact the volume 
of transactions on EUROPACE. External factors include changes in interest 
rates, migration, domestic construction activity or industry regulation changes. 
Earlier in 2012, Germany had just emerged from the financial crisis, and its 
effects on other EU countries like Greece pushed interest rates down. With 
falling interest rates, mortgage rates subsequently fall and buying a home 
becomes more attractive. That said, the nature of the banking crisis meant 
mortgage lenders had left the market, even in Europe, due to the losses and 
risks that had mounted up. Between 2006 and 2008, new mortgage financing 
with private clients fell by -6%, while personal loans fell by 40% in Germany.  
You would probably assume EUROPACE's volumes fell as well, right?  
  
203

Not at all. While the market for mortgage financing and personal loans 
declined, EUROPACE's volumes were up 51% and 266%, respectively, 
between 2006-2008. EUROPACE was solving a structural problem in the B2B 
financing industry through technology. Financing hasn't always been 
transparent (financial crisis); it can be slow, paperwork intensive and 
sometimes expensive. EUROPACE was the first platform to integrate all 
players in the mortgage market, allowing financiers to operate more efficiently 
and more flexibly with risk-based pricing support. The value was clear for its 
users; it saved time and cost and was much easier to use than traditional 
methods.  
The financial crisis accelerated the application use case for EUROPACE, which 
is typical for products and services that provide cost and time-saving 
advantages. You can file all necessary mortgage documents, value properties 
to determine discrepancies between the credit limit and market value, 
automate financing proposal reviews and do much more on one platform. The 
B2B integration also creates network effects where the more partners join, the 
more valuable the data, recommendations and solutions become. Major banks 
like Santander expanded their partnerships with EUROPACE to save costs, 
further enabling the marketplace and driving activity. In 2006, EUROPACE had 
a 4% market share in mortgage financing, and by 2008, its market share had 
doubled. Today, its market share is 30% of the German mortgage financing 
volume. 
This, coupled with the innovation and value creation at other Hypoport 
segments, grew its role in Germany's financing market and revenues and 
operating profits compounded by 19% and 22%, respectively, over the 
decade. EV/Revenue also increased from 0.7x (11.1x EV/EBIT) in 2012 to 2.9x 
(29.9x EV/EBIT) in 2022. 
Lesson 
We only reviewed Hypoport's EUROPACE platform above, but there were 
other business drivers in Hypoport, like its expansion into the insurance 
market, its volume growth in private client loans, and its acquisitions across 
the holding segment. To understand these business drivers, you need to also 
consider the implications of macro factors like Germany's low housing 
ownership, the EU's migration changes and the broader real estate industry 
  
204

dynamics. Diversified financial services like Hypoport require investors to do 
the research legwork, and as we learned from Hypoport and other 
outperformers like eGuarantee, Bajaj Finserv and Meritz Financial Group, the 
upside, especially when neglected by other market participants due to the 
complexity can be huge.  
Investors in Hypoport have not seen smooth sailing. While its shares returned 
a whopping 2,066% over the ten years, its shares have declined by -60% in 
the past year. Markets became very excited about Hyport's prospects as its 
EV/EBIT peaked at 104x in 2021. As we have already learned, everything has a 
price, even exciting growth businesses like Hypoport, and this also serves as a 
reminder of the importance of valuations in the outperformance journey.  
  
205

 
  
206
Hypoport's operating profit margins weren't initially great. In 2012, its EBIT margin was just 
3.8%. By 2015, this had improved to 13.8%. This is one of the benefits of gaining scale in 
platforms like EUROPACE, where the costs of adding a new user fall over time.  
Paying 63x EV/EBIT for Hypoport's shares cost shareholders huge losses in 2021, and 
achieving outperformance also requires valuation discipline.  
EBIT 
Margin 
3.6%
4.0%
6.9%
13.8%
14.8%
11.8%
10.9%
10.0%
7.6%
9.5%
EBIT 
growth
(50.0%)
22.2%
99.4%
146.9%
20.4%
(0.4%)
25.9%
15.8%
(12.7%)
44.0%
EV/Rev
0.78x
0.69x
0.73x
1.67x
3.12x
3.98x
4.75x
5.18x
7.47x
8.47x
EV/EBIT 
10.16x
31.83x
12.02x
16.64x
21.12x
25.97x
36.81x
39.44x
57.57x
62.95x
€ m
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Reven
ue
88
98
112
139
157
195
266
337
388
446
Cost 
Of 
Goods 
Sold
39
45
52
63
66
86
115
139
156
173
Gross 
Profit
49
53
61
76
91
109
151
199
231
273
Op. 
Cost
46
49
53
57
68
86
122
165
202
231
EBIT
3
4
8
19
23
23
29
34
29
42

Communication Services  
Outperformers: 19 companies  
The communication services industry surprisingly marginally underperformed 
as it represented 4.3% (19 of 446 companies) while representing 4.4% of the 
listed market universe. Like the information technology industry, 
communication services are also valued at a premium to the global MSCI 
index on a P/E ratio basis despite severely underperforming the MSCI World 
Index during the past decade.  
The rise of big technology companies like Alphabet, Meta Platforms, Netflix 
and Tencent has diminished telecom’s role in the sector, given Big Tech’s 
global reach, business models and competitive advantages. One no longer 
needs mobile carriers like AT&T to communicate over the phone with the 
availability of Meta Platforms family of apps. That said, the success stories 
within the communication services had little to do with Big Tech. Netflix was 
the only company among the top 100 biggest communication services 
companies that returned more than 1,000%.  
We split the communication services industry into two segments;  
•
Telecommunication services (3 companies) 
•
Media and entertainment (16 companies) 
The growth opportunities in the telecommunication industry have slowed in 
recent years, which showed in its outperformers weighting. Among the three 
telecommunication outperformers, only one was a traditional telecom; 
Hellenic Telecommunications, Greece's largest telecommunication company. 
Hellenic was not a growth company; its shares had fallen by -95% during the 
financial and Greek debt crises between 2007 and 2012 (its shares have still 
not recovered to pre-financial crisis highs). 
Media and entertainment companies represent 82% of the communication 
services industry which explains why the sector represented 16 of the 19 
industry outperformers. We further split the media and communication 
industry into three segments; content, platform and media support services.  
Content was dominated by gaming studios and publishers like CD Projekt in 
Poland and GungHo in Japan but it also had older economy media content 
  
207

companies like television broadcasters like Nexstar Media Group and Gray 
Television in the US. Nexstar Media defied the declining market in television 
broadcasting as it acquired various television stations across the US. You might 
be surprised to hear Nexstar (2,543%) outperformed its newer economy rivals 
like Netflix (2,079%) during the decade. Innovation and newer business 
models don’t always guarantee better returns.  
Media and entertainment platforms had fewer companies, with only three 
significant outperformers, AfreecaTV, the South Korean live streaming 
platform, PVR, the Indian movie theatre chain and Netflix. Media and 
entertainment platforms have less room for many players given the "winner 
take most" industry dynamics, but this also means their revenue streams are 
less cyclical than content providers due to their subscription models.  
Finally, media support services, ranging from record labels like JYP 
Entertainment in South Korea to media consultants like ValueCommerce in 
Japan, delivered various outperformers. These companies mainly benefitted 
from the increased business spending on social media and other internet 
applications. Record labels, for example, have seen their business models 
evolve due to the rise of music streaming, providing additional monetisation 
options.  
We examine how two companies in media and entertainment achieved growth 
and profitability during the decade; JYP Entertainment and CD Projekt.  
  
208

JYP Entertainment - The rise of K-pop 
Return: 1,186% 
JYP Entertainment was one of the initial big three record label and publishing 
companies in South Korea and was founded by Park Jin-young in 1997. The 
group was initially called Tae-Hong Planning Corporation and aimed to 
develop new South Korean music industry talents. In 1999, JYP signed its first 
artist, Pearl (also known as Jinju), who released her album, Sunflower, under 
JYP. More success followed with artists like Rain and Park Ji-yoon and music 
groups like Wonder Girls and 2PM.  
Although JYP has created many subsidiaries, its primary business is in K-pop 
record labelling, agency and publishing. When JYP signs an artist, they go 
through the JYP training process, which includes vocal training, language and 
interview training, stage performance training and other skills that may boost 
an artist's brand. Their songs or albums get published via platforms like 
Melon, Spotify, Apple Music and Tencent Music Entertainment. These also 
include over-the-top platforms like YouTube. Distributors like The Orchard, a 
subsidiary of Sony Music Entertainment, also collaborate with JYP to increase 
an artist's profile. Here, JYP receives a commission from album sales and also 
earns a commission from online platforms.  
Beyond record labelling, JYP also provides advertising opportunities for artists 
and significant clients, include Dentsu Korea, Nexon, Interojo and Gyeongnam 
Pharmaceutical. On some occasions, JYP artists like TWICE and DAY6 also 
earn licensing deals and generate royalties from brands across industries like 
gaming, cosmetics and fashion. Other revenue streams include performance 
fees from concert sales, global tours and some strategic partnerships.  
JYP and the South Korean labels stand out from international peers due to 
their audition model. Artists like Nichkun in the 2PM boy band were 
discovered by JYP scouts and later went through JYP's auditioning model. The 
JYP auditions allows JYP spot future artists early in their careers and increase 
their pipeline of future talents.   
  
209

Investment Case 
The rise of Hallyu and K-pop 
South Korean pop music (K-pop) is one area of the Korean wave (Hallyu), 
which also cuts across movies, TV dramas, pop culture and games. South 
Korea is one of the few countries with a dedicated goal of exporting its 
popular culture, and there are a few reasons why. The Asian Financial Crisis 
weakened FDI flows into South Korea and also damaged the global reputation 
of the Chaebols. Its tourism sector was also affected, and the South Korean 
government needed new avenues to build its international reputation.  
With music seen as one of the key channels in achieving this, K-pop benefitted 
from the strategy, and it quickly expanded rapidly into other East Asian 
countries like Japan before growing into China and the rest of the world. 
South Korean artists and their agencies also developed a model that 
supported an artist's overall growth and longevity, ensuring they could reach 
and relate with different cultures. JYP Entertainment, for example, had a 
reputation for teaching their younger artists languages like Mandarin, English 
and Japanese during the training program.  
  
210
Image: JYP Nation recording artists and groups include 2PM, Twice, Stray 
Kids and ITZY.  (company website) 

JYP Entertainment 
JYP, along with SM, YG and HYBE, are among the four largest music label 
production companies in South Korea. Beyond the broader K-pop and Hallyu 
trend, music labels have also benefitted from the rise of music streaming like 
Spotify and Melon. These platforms have shifted fans from using illegal music 
mediums and CDs to better monetised subscription-based models. Global 
revenues from these streaming platforms have grown from $1 billion in 2012 
to $16.9 billion in 2021, with mobile devices accounting for 62% of the market 
share. The K-pop industry also compounded by 22% over the past years, and 
unlike the rest of the global music industry, it has also bucked the trend of 
falling album sales.  
   
Beyond macro forces, JYP exceeded its industry peers in recent years. First, 
the initial expansion into the rest of Asia between 2010 and 2012 with the 
opening of JYP's China, Japan and Thailand offices created the foundation for 
JYP's position in the rest of the continent. JYP was also successful in spotting 
talented artists and forming bands early on. While its training and open 
audition methods have been controversially strict with artists, bands like 
GOT7, TWICE and DAY6 were particularly successful in both quality of their art 
within and beyond South Korea and also in their longevity which provides a 
recurring stream for JYP. The auditions also allowed JYP to diversify its 
revenue across many potential music groups. Today, JYP maintains a strong 
pipeline of music groups that can exceed past successes, such as Xdinary 
Heroes, NMIXX and NiziU.  
Since the merger of its listed and unlisted divisions, JYP has gone from loss-
making economics to leading its peers in profitability, paid down its debt and 
maintained a debt-free balance sheet since 2015 and revenue and profitability 
growth has also become more consistent and accelerated in more recent 
years. Despite 2021 revenues being more than 14-fold higher than the ₩15 
billion achieved in 2012, its EV/Revenue only expanded from 6.3x in 2012 to 
6.5x in 2022. Its returns were primarily driven by earnings growth.  
  
211

Lesson  
Record labels have traditionally not been a favourable industry in markets. 
Revenue and earnings are lumpy, labels are often exposed to a concentrated 
number of artists, which can be difficult to forecast from a brand value and 
future earnings view, and sometimes, an artist's value to a record label can be 
wiped out from controversies and legal disputes. Due to this, music labels 
typically experience periods of extreme overvaluation or undervaluation. 
2001-2009 was a period JYP experienced extreme overvaluation. In fact, 
shareholders who held JYP shares between 2002-2012 would see their 
investment fall by -5% over the ten years. 
Despite the growth of K-pop and the creation of additional revenue streams 
like music streaming in the past decade, JYP's listed peers like SM and YG 
only returned 5.2% and 5.3% annualised, respectively, compared to JYP's 29% 
annualised return over the ten years. YG's revenue tripled over the decade 
(₩355 billion revenue in 2021), but its operating profits didn't grow (₩21 
billion operating profits in both 2012 and 2021); a growth theme does not 
always trickle into a good investment.  
  
212
Images: (Left) ITZY is one of JYP’s latest girl group’s, debuting in 2019 with their “It’z 
Different” album. (Spotify) 
(Middle) JYP and their artists engage with social media platforms like Instagram to drive 
engagement with fans (Instagram) 

YG relied on too few artists and was plagued with internal conflict, public 
controversies and various disputes leading to many top artists leaving 
prematurely and nullifying contracts. Similarly, SM has also suffered from 
public spats concerning its relationship with artists, which have affected its 
ability to capitalise on non-recording revenue streams that have benefitted 
JYP. JYP has also had their fair share of these artist-label controversies, but 
these have been more private when compared to YG. 
Generally, games, movies and music labels require an in-depth analysis of the 
culture, growth & diversification strategy, and monetisation & longevity of its 
IP to make any judgements on future revenue, earnings or cash flow. 
  
213
JYP Entertainment did not make a great investment for many years and record labels are 
generally too lumpy for most investors.  
The strategy improvement and diversification supported JYP’s profitability and since 2014, 
JYP has achieved y-o-y earnings growth every year.   
₩ m
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Revenue
19,845
15,067
21,324
48,483
50,557
73,645
102,242
124,821
155,436
144,399
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
16,343
11,617
13,153
30,281
35,035
46,445
63,127
69,035
79,693
67,748
Gross 
Profit
3,503
3,450
8,171
18,202
15,523
27,200
39,115
55,786
75,743
76,651
Op. Cost
6,531
9,978
10,725
9,945
11,324
14,462
19,654
26,527
32,437
32,515
EBIT
(3,028)
(6,527)
(2,553)
8,257
4,199
12,738
19,461
29,259
43,306
44,137
EBIT 
Growth
-
-
-
-
(49.1%)
203.4%
52.8%
50.3%
48.0%
1.9%
EBIT 
Margin 
%
(15.3%)
(43.3%)
(12.0%)
17.0%
8.3%
17.3%
19.0%
23.4%
27.9%
30.6%
EV/Rev
7.63x
8.20x
6.93x
6.21x
3.08x
2.76x
2.66x
7.30x
5.86x
5.52x
EV/EBIT
216.83
x
NM
NM
72.13x
31.77x
25.62x
15.21x
41.95x
24.52x
18.13x

CD Projekt - The volatile ride of gaming studios  
Return: 2,262% 
CD Projekt is a Polish video gaming publisher, developer and distributor of 
video games for PC, Nintendo Switch and other consoles worldwide. It was 
founded in 1994 initially as a video game retailer by Marcin Iwiński and Michał 
Kiciński at a time when the Polish gaming market was scarce, and its economy 
was transitioning into a market-based economy. With $2,000, the duo started 
localising and selling games at mom-and-pop shops. CD Projekt saw success 
with titles like Ace Ventura and Baldur's Gate, where they brought in famous 
Polish actors, translated the language and sold thousands of copies.  
In 2002, the company formed a video game studio CD Projekt RED. After 
years of disruptions and difficulties, its flagship game, the Witcher, was 
released in 2007. Follow up sequels were created, and CD Projekt broadened 
its portfolio of action role-playing games into new franchises such as 
Cyberpunk 2077. Beyond its content, CD Projekt also developed GOG.com in 
2008, a digital video game distribution platform where customers can buy 
various games with over 2,000 choices. GOG.com accounted for almost a 
quarter of its 2021 revenue.  
 
Investment Case 
Like many gaming studios, CD Projekt is cyclical and usually has lumpy 
revenues and earnings. Gaming companies typically take two main forms. 
Those like CD Projekt may focus on just a few franchises with big budgets 
(AAA games). Their earnings are lumpier and require bigger budgets for 
developing games. When things go well, the payoff can be significant. The 
other form is studios with many franchises and games, typically indie games 
  
214
Image: CD Projekt’s major projects include roleplaying games like 
Cyberpunk (left and The Witcher (right)  

with smaller budgets. Their earnings are less lumpy and they are usually 
mobile games relying on advertising or in-game purchases. Star gaming 
studios typically have four things; 
•
Great monetizable content and potential to develop more content 
•
Financial flexibility and capital allocation strategy to support ambitions and 
growth  
•
Good marketing and customer awareness strategy  
•
The team culture to hire and retain top creative talents  
CD Projekt has done well on the first three points but has struggled with the 
final area. The development, story and gameplay behind The Witcher and 
Cyberpunk 2077 were bold, fun and ambitious. The studio has seen positive 
reviews from critics and players over the years. Since the success of the 
Witcher 2, CD Projekt has maintained a debt-free balance sheet with a strong 
cash position. Cash is currently half of its total assets and operating profits 
have been positive yearly since then.  
CD Projekt has also had strong relationships with non-Polish gamers and 
industry partners. Its marketing and outreach strategy has been quite strong, 
even with non-Polish gamers. The revenue from Polish gamers has consistently 
fallen from 50% of total revenue in 2011 to just 2.4% in 2021. Thanks to the 
increased industry connectivity in gaming platforms like Steam and console 
platforms, CD Projekt expanded its global reach into important markets like 
the USA and Asia; revenue from North America accounts for roughly 70% of 
total revenue.  
However, its marketing boldness has not always matched the game quality, 
costing CD Projekt its reputation after its failures with Cyberpunk 2077. We 
will explore more on this in the lesson section.  
After CD Projekt showed it was not a one-hit studio, the group gained more 
analyst following, and multiples expanded over time. In 2012, CD Projekt 
traded at 3.5x EV/Revenue (22.9x EV/EBIT) with operating margins of 17%. By 
2022, the EV/Revenue was 9x EV/Revenue (26.3x EV/EBIT) with operating 
margins of 30%. We must note that the lumpy nature of AAA studios like CD 
Projekt makes multiples less useful in analysis.  
  
215

Lesson 
While Revenue and operating profits compounded by 21% and 31% CAGR, 
respectively, during the decade, CD Projekt has seen its market capitalisation 
fall by -80% (29 billion złoty peak) in the past two years due to overvaluation 
and expensive mistakes by management.  
For role-playing AAA games like Cyberpunk 2077, most of its sales will 
happen in the first few weeks and without microtransactions and advertising 
revenue, this becomes the sole revenue segment. Assuming Cyberpunk 2077 
sold 30 million copies (initial projections) at an average price of $60, this 
would have brought in $1.8 billion or (8 billion złotych) over its lifetime. With 
the lumpiness of earnings, it’s incredibly difficult to justify a market 
capitalisation of 29 billion złotych.  
Another issue with CD Projekt was the final requirement for top studios, a 
culture that attracts and retains top talent. CD Projekt had a reputation for 
staff having to crunch extensively, six days a week to meet tight deadlines. 
While this worked out well in the first Witcher game, the complexity involved 
in Cyberpunk 2077 made this culture extremely unsustainable. By 2015, senior 
developers began leaving and in some cases, like Konrad Tomaszkiewicz, they 
left to form their gaming businesses. The aggressive marketing had become 
too aggressive and left expectations for CD Projekt extremely high after eight 
years of the studio building the game’s hype. As a result, testers and players 
reported many technical issues and bugs, which forced PlayStation to remove 
  
216
Image: Cyberpunk was removed from the PlayStation store and CD Projekt had to offer 
public apologies and refunds to customers due to the bugs and shortcomings. (PCgamer) 

it from its store. It’s essential to track and understand these factors when 
investing in gaming studios, especially when a studio is concentrated on a few 
leading titles, as with CD Projekt. An investor can do this by speaking to 
current and past employees, reading and scraping data off game stores, and 
reviewing industry blogs and feedback from hobbyist reviewers.  
  
217
As you see, revenues are lumpy in CD Projekt, like many gaming companies. After the initial 
release of the Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings in 2011, revenue declined by -41% between 2012 
and 2014. The Witcher 3 was released in 2015 and you can see the bump in revenue in 2015.  
Due to the lumpiness, it's important for studios to have minimal debt and this is something 
CD Projekt has done over the past decade. The balance sheet flexibility allows CD Projekt to 
make bold AAA investments without being too tied to finance repayments. 
zł m
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Revenue
164
142
96
798
584
463
363
521
2,139
888
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
97
92
61
211
113
82
106
161
491
250
Gross 
Profit
67
50
36
587
471
381
257
360
1,648
638
Op. Cost
39
37
28
163
167
140
144
165
489
370
EBIT 
28
13
8
424
304
241
113
195
1,159
268
EBIT 
Margin 
17.2%
9.4%
7.9%
53.2%
52.0%
51.9%
31.0%
37.5%
54.2%
30.2%
EBIT 
growth
10.5%
(52.5%)
(43.2%)
5,475.5% (28.4%)
(20.7%)
(53.2%)
73.6%
493.0%
(76.9%)
Debt/
Capital
3.3%
0.3%
0.4%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
1.8%
0.9%
2.4%

Information Technology  
Outperformers: 115 companies  
As we expected, information technology was the best performing industry 
(115 of 446 companies) despite being 12.7% of the proportion of globally 
listed companies. During our research, we were aware that the exceptionally 
high valuations in the information technology sector could lead us to wrong 
conclusions about outperformance; the industry ended the period valued at 
27.6x earnings compared to the global index at 18.5x earnings.  
That said, it would be unfair to tie the sector's performance to just valuation 
expansion alone. 39% of the sector's companies have an operating profit 
margin above 10%, compared to the 32% across all industries. From a growth 
perspective, the sector's outperformance is even more significant as 23.6% 
registered revenue and operating earnings five-year growth of 10% CAGR 
compared to the 17.4% registered across all industries. So it's clear that the 
information technology sector at least deserves a premium multiple relative to 
the broader market due to its profitability and growth.   
 
We split the industry into four sub-segments;  
•
Semiconductors (44 companies) 
•
Hardware (27 companies) 
•
IT Services (26 companies)  
•
Software (18 companies) 
Semiconductors, the second largest 
number of listed companies within IT, was 
the best performing sub-segment with 44 
companies. The more interesting fact was 
that if we go back to 2002-2012, only one 
semiconductor company returned more 
than 1,000%. Semiconductors can be seen 
as the most cyclical sub-segment within 
information technology, with frequent 
boom and bust cycles.  
When a new technology is introduced and becomes commercially available, 
like in the case of the PC, mobile phone, and the data centre revolution, 
  
218
16%
23%
23%
38%
Semiconductor
Hardware
IT Services
Software

semiconductors typically benefit due to their role in chip-making. The industry 
then raises capital expenditure and research & development budgets in 
response to the increased demand. During these periods of growing demand, 
as we saw during 2012-2022, the revenue and earnings of these companies 
increase, which drives investor interest in the sector.  
Despite most semiconductor chip production occurring in Asia, seven of the 
ten largest outperformers were American, led by Nvidia in the graphic 
processing unit (GPU) segment, which returned 5,908%. Asia, however, 
dominated from a share price view; all but one of the industry's best-
performing companies were from Asia. We explore the investment case for 
one of Japan's semiconductors success stories, Lasertec.  
Hardware was another strong sub-sector, with electronic, instruments and 
component hardware companies producing the most outperformers. Thanks 
to its strong innovation competitiveness and export-based economy, Sweden 
was one of the leading countries in hardware companies. China also had four 
companies, with Sunny Optical Technology delivering the largest share price 
return of 5,146%. For many B2B businesses, the lines between the industrial 
and hardware sectors are increasingly becoming blurry, given the role “the 
industrial internet of things" now plays in factories and manufacturing plants. 
We also explore this theme in our HMS Networks cases study. 
The phrase "Software is eating the world" was not exactly the case in public 
markets as it was the worst performing sub-sector within the information 
technology industry, with 18 companies. One reason for its underperformance 
has been the growth of the venture capital industry. Software companies are 
increasingly staying private, especially in developed markets, and when they 
go public, they tend to be already established. The US produced the most 
software outperformers, with three of the four American companies being 
among the largest software companies. While the software industry isn't the 
most obvious place to search for turnaround opportunities, some delivered 
remarkable turnarounds; an example was Adobe which we explored in our 
case studies.  
IT Services are much smaller than the rest of the IT industry; only one of the 26 
IT services outperformers ended the decade as a large cap company. India 
and Japan dominated the IT Sector industry, with each country having six 
outperformers. India is not a surprise given its 55% market share in the global 
  
219

IT services sourcing industry. Indian companies like Mindtree, COFORGE and 
Mastek benefitted from its outsourcing industry and the growth of services like 
cloud management, digital automation and cybersecurity.  
For our IT services case study, we looked at an outperformer from an unlikely 
country, Reply S.p.A in Italy and learn lessons on the consulting industry and 
valuations in IT. 
  
220

Case studies 
HMS Networks - Connecting the industrial world 
Return: 1,421% 
HMS, which means “Hardware Meets Software”, was initially started as a 
student project at the University of Halmstad in Sweden by Nicolas Hassbjer 
and Staffan Dahlström (current CEO) with the idea of developing technology 
for measuring paper. The project later became a consulting business and then 
shifted into hardware manufacturing. This led HMS into the field of industrial 
communication and spurred the development of Anybus, its leading product 
that supports factory connectivity. As customers grew, HMS continued 
investing in its innovation and sales reach, expanding into new markets like 
France, China, and Japan. 
HMS currently operates in three markets; industrial automation, remote 
monitoring and network monitoring via its four core brands (Anybus, Ewon, 
Intesis and Ixxat) and three member products from recent acquisitions 
(WEBfactory, Owasys and Procentec). Anybus is its leading brand, 
representing 46% of 2021 sales. 
Anybus enables industrial devices to 
communicate with any industrial 
  
221
18%
7%
10%
19%
46%
Anybus
Ewon
Ixxat
Intesis 
Other brands
26%
4%
4%
4%
6%
6%
8%
19%
23%
Germany 
USA
France 
China 
Italy 
Netherlands 
United Kingdom 
Sweden 
Others 
HMS Network’s sales by brand (left) and by geography (right)  

network (fieldbuses) or ethernet network, whether wired or wirelessly. The 
brand shaped HMS Network’s “design-win” model, where HMS aims to win 
contracts with potential customers and integrate their devices into their 
product designs over the life span of manufacturing, which is often over many 
years. There are now 1,790 active design-wins supporting HMS growth.  
Investment Case 
HMS Networks transitioned from a one-dimensional industrial communication 
solutions provider into a multi-solution company with its acquisitions of Ixxat 
and Ewon in 2013 and Intesis in 2016. While we discuss these acquisitions in 
greater detail in the lessons segment below, it's important to highlight that the 
timing was near-perfect given the broader trends we have seen across the 
industrial sector.  
Factories have become more specialised, increasing the pressure on operators 
to do more with fewer resources and automate where possible. HMS' Ixxat 
and Anybus include a portfolio of niche bridges, gateways and interfaces that 
support plant automation. Another critical theme contributing to the 
opportunities for HMS is globalisation's impact on plant connectivity. Before 
buzzwords like the industrial internet of things (IIoT), its product portfolio was 
well ahead of the industry curve through its remote solution tools in its Ewon 
division. Its industrial cloud, Talk2M, allows its 20,000+ customers to connect 
machines in a secure end-to-end cloud and provide users with access to live 
data from devices anywhere in the world via the Ewon eCatcher app. From a 
plant safety lens, devices like Ewon Cosy+, also support maintenance with 
remote troubleshooting, reducing the need for on-site travel for plant 
operators.  
Beyond innovation and the growing IIoT trends, HMS followed the Swedish 
global growth strategy, ensuring that its sales and distribution teams were 
based and familiar with every key market. Sweden only represents 3.8% of 
sales while countries like Germany (23% of sales), the USA (19% of sales) and 
Japan (8% of sales) are among its top three countries by sales. Positioning 
sales reps and technical support teams in these regions supported its contract 
wins with clients via the design-win model.  
Its acquisition and innovation-led growth strategy compounded revenue and 
operating earnings by 18% and 21% per year over the ten years, while 
  
222

multiples expanded from 3x EV/Revenue (16.4x EV/EBIT) in 2012 to 9.9x EV/
Revenue (42x EV/EBIT). 
 
Lesson  
Like many diversified businesses, analysing their investment cases can become 
complicated due to the breadth of business and growth drivers, competitors 
and product/service applications. One of our lessons on investing in these 
diversified hardware businesses is to ensure that their many operations serve 
their central mission for clients. For HMS, this was improving industrial 
communication for clients worldwide. This mission was evident across its 
whole business from areas its portfolio of solutions expanded into, its 
acquisitions during the decade, the research and development approach, and 
even its sales and distribution culture. A risk management process should 
ensure that the mission, strategy and execution are consistent for diversified 
businesses of this nature.  
Acquisition-led growth  
Going back to 2012, HMS mainly relied on its Anybus division, and organic 
growth had compounded by 17% over the prior ten years. Management 
began noticing the increased demand for industrial technology devices and 
applications and it was clear to them that Anybus alone couldn't satisfy all 
  
223
Images: HMS Networks has a diversified product portfolio that serves its mission of increasing 
the productivity in industrial communication for customers. (company website)  

customer needs in IIoT. M&A is a common path for hardware companies in 
these situations, given how enormous and fragmented the IT hardware 
industry is (there are twice as many globally listed hardware companies as 
software companies).  
Every company HMS acquired in the following years, like the Intellicom in 
2011, Ewon and Ixxat in 2013 and the more recent acquisition of subsidiaries 
like WEBfactory and Owasys are still focused on achieving HMS Network's 
mission, increasing the productivity in industrial communication for customers.  
Some acquisitions also supported its already existing Anybus division. For 
example, management had flagged the growing role of Wi-Fi connectivity in 
factories, given the enrolment of 4G and the increased memory and speed 
capacity in devices. HMS later acquired a technology that supported wireless 
communication in 2014, and two years later, it launched Anybus Wireless Bolt, 
its first proprietary solution for wireless communication, which also won the 
best network technology by Automation Inside.  
From a financing view, management also ensured they were financially 
prudent with acquisition purchase prices. The €32 million purchase of Ixxat 
was valued at 19x earnings, funded by debt HMS took on. Management 
ensured its cash flow covered the interest payments well and avoided the 
costly mistake of diluting existing shareholders to fund new acquisitions.  
HMS Networks is not short of competitors like ProSoft, Hilscher, Moxa and 
Molex (owned by Koch Industries), but its product depth and customer-centric 
innovation-led strategy have allowed the group to stand out in the ever-
competitive field of industrial communication.  
  
224

  
225
The acquisition of Ixxat and Ewon in 2013 and Intesis in 2016 where years HMS saw its fastest 
revenue growth. This is a direct impact non-dilutive acquisitions can have for shareholders and 
the acquisition-led strategy played a key role in its outperformance.  
Kr m
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
Revenue
345
384
382
501
589
702
952
1,183
1,366
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
137
151
152
187
222
272
371
462
532
Gross 
Profit
208
233
229
314
367
430
581
722
834
Op. 
Costs
126
160
165
229
278
329
424
511
584
EBIT
82
73
64
85
89
100
158
210
250
EBIT 
Margin 
23.7%
18.9%
16.7%
17.0%
15.2%
14.3%
16.6%
17.8%
18.3%
EBIT 
Growth
116.9%
(11.2%)
(11.9%)
33.1%
4.9%
12.4%
57.2%
33.3%
18.8%
EV/
Revenue
3.37x
3.18x
3.00x
3.56x
3.62x
4.08x
4.25x
5.27x
5.55x
EV/EBIT
17.35x
13.99x
16.53x
21.28x
21.46x
26.16x
32.02x
29.21x
30.90x

Adobe - A software turnaround 
Return: 1,241%  
Adobe is a diversified software company that operates in digital media and 
experience and publishing & advertising industries for business and consumer 
applications. It was founded in 1982 by computer scientists John Warnock and 
Charles Geschke. After leaving Xerox, they focused on developing the 
PostScript interpreter, which transferred graphics and text from the graphical 
computer to the laser printer. 
Adobe delivered more groundbreaking products such as Adobe Illustrator and 
Adobe Photoshop, which redefined the quality and complexity of images, 
film, video and the web. Adobe Acrobat and the PDF also changed how we 
shared, delivered and received information. It also acquired other companies 
that complemented its offerings, such as Aldus Corporation and Macromedia.  
Adobe later bundled up its many applications and transitioned from the 
licensed model into the subscription powered by the cloud-based Software as 
a service (SaaS) economy. Today, its business is split into two segments: 
•
Digital Media (76% of revenue): products that support the creation and 
publishing of content and documents. 
•
Digital Experience (24% of revenue): applications that support businesses 
with analytics, commerce and other key business functions 
  
226
Image: Adobe’s family of apps. (Company annual report) 

Investment Case  
While Adobe has always been at the forefront of how society utilises creative 
and design tools, its investment case has not always been promising. Between 
2008 and 2015, Adobe only grew earnings by 4.4% CAGR, and debt/capital 
rose from 0% to 20% as it needed to defend itself from the tectonic shifts 
occurring in software. 
Adobe traditionally relied on desktop applications with a licensing model with 
customers. Users paid for a perpetual license for various services and tools 
and gained access to them which worked well during the desktop age, given 
that desktops are immobile. But with laptops becoming ubiquitous and the 
internet becoming more accessible and widespread, software needed to shift 
from its one-off licensing model into a cloud-based subscription SaaS model 
where users can access the tools and software from anywhere for a monthly 
fee. For companies like Adobe, this was a challenge because its revenue and 
profits were certain to drop as customer payments became more spread over 
time rather than one fixed fee. Also, users could cancel at any point, so if 
Adobe's tools became uncompetitive, users could easily switch to rival 
products. There was also criticism from its loyal customer base, who raised 
concerns about the new subscription service model. 
However, there were various benefits beyond the more predictable and 
recurring earnings the SaaS model brought to the industry. First, Adobe could 
deliver product iterations faster and directly without requiring users to re-
download apps. Users could also become more aware of Adobe features 
beyond their packages, increasing the potential revenue per user in the longer 
term. Adobe could broaden its customer base beyond the traditional creative 
professional to regular internet users who may require only a few Creative 
Cloud solutions. Variable costs in delivering new licenses such as CDs, 
packaging and retailer contracts would drop given the more direct model the 
internet ushered for software companies like Adobe.  
The transition also required a culture change, given the SaaS model's 
emphasis on innovating and delivering products better and faster to the user. 
Adobe had to listen more to customer needs and build and iterate their 
services better to support customer demands. There was also a need for 
newer cloud-based technology at the backbone of Adobe, such as data 
security and disaster recovery.  
  
227

As you see, the shift from licensing to SaaS is much more complex than just 
changing the pricing model, but it paid off for Adobe's bottom line. In 2021, 
Adobe earned its best operating and net income margin since 2005. Revenue 
and earnings picked up again after 2015, and Adobe has since compounded 
both by 22% and 32%, respectively. The more predictable subscription model 
has also allowed both management and markets to predict Adobe's future 
better, and as a result, its multiples expanded from 3.7x EV/Revenue (13x EV/
EBIT) in 2012 to 12.1x EV/Revenue (38.7x EV/EBIT) in 2022.  
Lesson  
For software companies to stay relevant for decades, it requires going through 
periods of self-disruption. While Adobe did not change its purpose in design, 
creativity and supporting the future of work, it needed to change how it 
delivered its products to consumers by embracing the tectonic shift in 
technology, such as the growth of mobile computing, the internet, the creative 
economy and the SaaS model. Not every company successfully transitions its 
business model like Adobe did and there are a few lessons here. 
These transitions, which we call transitional turnarounds, require a few things. 
First, transitional turnarounds need to move with the wind. By this, we mean 
the rationale behind the changes is due to macro, technological or 
behavioural forces occurring beyond the company's control. For Adobe, this 
was the growth of mobile computing, the increasing role of the internet and 
its effect on how we do things. Second, management needed to be bold with 
decision-making and sometimes non-consensus changes. There's an 
advantage when the CEO is the founder or majority shareholder, but in 
Adobe's case, Shantanu Narayen was neither and showed that owner-oriented 
managers could also be non-founders.  
Finally, transitions need to be made with all stakeholders considered. For 
Adobe, this was extremely important because it eased tensions between its 
shareholders and core customers. Shareholders were initially worried that 
switching from licensing to SaaS would lead to lower margins, but Adobe had 
supported this move with its financial projections in its 2012 shareholder 
presentation. Despite earnings declining by -63% over the next two years, its 
share price more than doubled. Sceptical customers were also given a choice 
to either stay with the licensing model or switch to the subscription model, 
  
228

which eased tensions. Within the first few months, almost 300,000 people had 
switched to the subscription offerings.  
By the end of 2012, Adobe was already beating its initial cloud projections on 
all fronts. Even if you waited for the changes to show up on its financials, as in 
2015, you would have still seen a return of 340% (28% CAGR).  
  
229

  
230
Adobe's operating profit margins fell from 26.7% to 10.4% between 2010 to 2014. In most 
transitional turnarounds, companies need to make two steps back to move forward for the 
long term, and if you only looked at the financials without considering the broader picture 
and story, you would have thought Adobe was declining.  
Its business was actually getting better, given that revenues were becoming less cyclical and 
more predictable, and its product portfolio had become more organised to serve a larger 
audience.  
After 2014, we can see the earnings bump as its EBIT doubled in 2015. The EV/EBIT of 74x 
would have made Adobe look expensive but compared to its real potential, it was cheap. 
$ m
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Revenue
3,800
4,216
4,404
4,055
4,147
4,796
5,854
7,302
9,030
11,171
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
404
438
484
587
622
744
820
1,011
1,195
1,673
Gross 
Profit
3,397
3,778
3,920
3,469
3,525
4,051
5,035
6,291
7,835
9,498
Op. 
Costs
2,380
2,581
2,743
3,020
3,092
3,148
3,541
4,123
4,995
6,230
EBIT
1,016
1,197
1,177
449
433
903
1,494
2,168
2,840
3,268
Revenue
29.0%
11.0%
4.4%
(7.9%)
2.3%
15.6%
22.1%
24.7%
23.7%
23.7%
EBIT 
Growth
38.9%
17.8%
(1.7%)
(61.8%)
(3.7%)
108.8%
65.4%
45.2%
31.0%
15.1%
EBIT 
Margin
26.7%
28.4%
26.7%
11.1%
10.4%
18.8%
25.5%
29.7%
31.5%
29.3%
Return 
on 
Capital
10.1%
10.7%
9.5%
3.4%
3.3%
6.6%
10.2%
13.8%
14.9%
14.5%
EV/
Revenue
4.78x
3.51x
3.40x
5.02x
7.78x
8.87x
8.84x
10.55x
13.93x
13.75x
EV/EBIT
19.68x
12.52x
12.22x
27.07x
74.07x
65.91x
41.19x
38.42x
44.37x
46.83x

Reply S.p.A - Hidden gems in unlikely areas 
Return: 2,796% 
Reply is an Italian network of companies that specialise in consulting, system 
integration and digital services and provide digital communication and media 
solutions. Its current Chairman, Mario Rizzante, founded Reply in 1996 to 
assist various clients with application and web integration needs during the 
internet boom.  
Initially, Reply focused on just the industrial and telecommunication sectors, 
but today, clients range across all industries. Manufacturing and retail is 
currently its largest sector (34% of sales), followed by financial services (30% of 
sales) and telecommunication and media (21% of sales). Their original thesis 
was quite simple. Mario Rizzante believed the technological revolution would 
transform how we did things, from how factories operated to how we 
communicated with one another. The struggle for a consulting company is 
that no one consultant or single company can solve every issue. But a network 
of companies can.  
Reply owns and has acquired dozens of companies specialising in various 
niches within technology services. In 2021 alone, Reply acquired five 
companies, such as Enowa, which specialises in consulting and solutions with 
a focus on SAP products, Spur Group, an American sales and marketing 
consulting firm. 
Technology consultants are usually profitable and asset-light and consultants 
like Reply employ various revenue models, such as project-based work where 
a client may need Reply consultants to work in-house on some problems for a 
fixed price or contract per-unit model, which is dependent on the time or 
intensity of the work. Consultants like Reply also own various in-house 
technologies that support client operations for a fee.  
Investment Case  
Reply is one of the few companies we think has had an attractive investment 
case since its founding. Since going public, Reply has been profitable yearly 
and achieved double-digit operating margins every year except in 2003. It 
only missed year-on-year operating profits growth twice, in 2003 and 2009. 
  
231

But how have they achieved such a long-term track record of profitable 
growth?  
IT consulting is not the most obvious place to look for companies that can 
compound earnings. Compared to software and hardware, it has largely been 
neglected by investors despite also benefitting from technology shifts. The 
gap created low multiples in companies like Reply that could grow organically 
and through acquisitions of companies in the $53 billion IT consulting industry. 
In its early days, Reply had already built several proprietor software like Click 
Reply and People&Web Reply. Acquiring peers also accelerated the overall 
group’s expertise and expanded Reply into more geographies as it now has 
over 10,500 employees worldwide. 
Reply has also adapted to technology and new paradigms in various ways. An 
example was the rise of China as a global powerhouse. As European 
companies, from fashion and consumer goods to automotive and industrial 
companies, aimed to better position their operations in China’s growth, Reply 
developed “China Beats”, the marketing and social intelligence platform. The 
platform supports its clients in understanding the Chinese market via a broad 
data ecosystem pulled from China e-commerce platforms, search engines and 
Sina Weibo. Recent developments in the metaverse have also opened Reply 
to new opportunities in supporting clients in areas such as 3D modelling, 
avatar creation, and NFTs via its Infinity Reply and Reply Game Studios 
division. 
 
  
232
Images: Reply’s Area 42 space for metaverse workshops (left) and a presentation by its 
China Beats team (right). Reply responds very quickly to the changing technological needs 
of its clients to ensure its solutions are competitive and relevant. (Reply laboratories)  

Ensuring its company network has the right partners and qualifications allowed 
Reply to build and tailor its expertise for clients, which is unusual at larger 
consulting firms. Reply has earned gold certification with big technology 
cloud-based companies like Adobe, Google, Amazon Web Services, 
Microsoft, Salesforce, and Oracle.  
These factors drove its revenue and operating profits by 13% and 16% per 
year, over the past ten years. As the group continued to grow and diversify its 
capabilities, its multiples expanded as EV/Revenue increased from 0.4x (3.6x 
EV/EBIT) in 2012 to 2.6x (18.5x EV/EBIT) in 2022.  
Lesson  
Italy is not the most obvious place to search for multibaggers in information 
technology, and neither is IT consulting within information technology. Reply 
defied the odds and has achieved steady and profitable growth since 
inception. This was achieved by being more than just your regular consultant; 
launching hundreds of products, acquiring hundreds of companies and 
investing in proprietary software and technology.  
Looking at their annual report from 2002, Mario Rizzante and his team had 
already envisioned a world where technological advancements would disrupt 
various industries and also noticed that European companies would need 
support to keep up with the pace in North America. This slower pace of 
innovation in Europe eventually became a problem, and many investors 
overlooked European technology companies. For hidden companies like 
Reply, the issue in Europe became an opportunity for them, but investors 
neglected them. Its EV/EBIT fell to just 3.4x in 2012 despite its solid growth 
and profitability. The lesson here is simple; because everyone abandons a 
sector or region for fundamental reasons, it doesn’t mean you should because 
there could be hidden gems like Reply that benefit from the issues 
highlighted.  
  
233

 
  
234
Despite its 11% operating profit margin and 17% annualised operating profit growth, Reply 
was valued at just 3.36x EV/EBIT by the market. If we applied our EV/EBIT / growth rate rule, 
Reply could appreciate by 400% on just multiples revaluation alone.  
As you see, Reply has been a consistent grower thanks to diversifying its solutions for clients 
and acquiring other companies into its network. 
€ m
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Revenue
447.5
506.4
574.5
649.0
721.2
800.3
902.1
1,050.8
1,205.7
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
385.0
435.6
488.7
552.6
612.1
685.2
768.4
900.3
1,009.3
Gross 
Profit
62.4
70.8
85.8
96.3
109.1
115.1
133.7
150.4
196.4
Op. 
Costs
12.7
13.3
14.6
15.3
17.1
20.4
22.8
19.5
42.4
EBIT
49.8
57.6
71.2
81.1
92.0
94.7
110.9
131.0
154.1
EV/Rev
0.45x
0.39x
0.65x
0.94x
1.32x
1.50x
1.85x
2.09x
1.99x
EV/EBIT
3.92x
3.36x
5.59x
7.74x
10.53x
11.90x
15.09x
17.03x
16.26x

Lasertec Corporation - A 100-bagger journey 
Return: 10,225% 
Lasertec Corporation is a Japanese semiconductor equipment company that 
provides inspection and measurement solutions based on applied optics. 
Lasertec was founded in 1960 and was initially called NJS Corporation. Its first 
original product was the LSI photomask inspection system launched in 1975, 
which was the world's first and helped the semiconductor industry achieve 
higher defection detection rates while also reducing inspection time rates to 
1/10 of what it previously was. In 1986, the company changed its name to 
Lasertec Corporation, which coincided with its entry into the Flat Panel Display 
(FPD) photomask inspection industry.  
Today, Lasertec has three core product systems; 
•
Semiconductor inspection systems (EUV, DUV and Wafer) 
•
FPD photomask inspection 
•
Laser microscopes and lithium battery inspection 
For our analysis, we will focus mainly on the first segment, which has been the 
key driver of Lasertec's performance in more recent years.   
Investment Case 
The semiconductor manufacturing process is very complex and sophisticated, 
involving many different inputs in making a single chip. For simplicity, we can 
think of Lasertec’s role in the semiconductor process as a factory inspector 
who goes around plants to ensure operations are safe, of quality and within 
compliance. For decades, Lasertec has developed highly complex inspection 
systems across the EUV and wafer manufacturing process, but it is really its 
EUV photomask inspection systems that has driven sales and profits in more 
recent years.  
Unlocking the EUV opportunity  
Many products, from smartphones to gaming consoles and electronic devices, 
rely on the lithography process, which involves using light to pattern thin films 
over a wafer. In previous years, the industry relied on the DUV process, which 
had a wavelength of 193nm. ASML later created the EUV lithography process, 
  
235

which had a wavelength of 13.5nm, 14 times shorter. The shorter wavelength 
allows the production of more transistors on a single chip, thus boosting 
information processing speed and capacity in devices and applications.  
These EUV lithography tools are made by ASML, a Dutch semiconductor 
company and its first set was shipped in the early 2010s. Lasertec began 
working on how it could create inspection tools for the new generation EUV 
lithography process. They later announced they could finally commercialise 
their EUV mask blank inspection system in 2017. For chipmakers, Lasertec's 
invention ultimately improved production yields and profitability and became 
critical for the industry.  
Lasertec soon received orders from leading-edge logic foundries like TSMC, 
Samsung and Intel as they transitioned into making 7nm chips. As these logic 
foundries progress from 7nm to 5nm and 3nm, the number of masks needed 
increases, which also benefits Lasertec and Lasertec is currently their sole 
supplier. In recent years, its clientele has grown beyond logic foundries and 
into DRAM manufacturers like SK Hynix in South Korea. Lasertec now plays a 
vital role for these companies via its mask inspection tools and has won 
various supplier of the year awards from important industry companies like 
Intel Corporation.  
These orders have been instrumental for Lasertec. Between 2012 and 2016, its 
operating earnings grew by 10% per year. In the four years after 2017, its 
earnings compounded by 51% CAGR. As earnings grew and its role in the 
EUV value chain increased, its coverage in sell-side reports increased, and 
Lasertec saw its multiples expand from 1.3x EV/Revenue (6.4x EV/EBIT) in 
2012 to 19.9x EV/Revenue (67x EV/EBIT) in 2022. Debt also reduced from an 
11% debt/capital ratio to a debt-free balance sheet.  
Lesson  
Lasertec was the best performing company in the semiconductor industry with 
a 10,226% return or 58.8% CAGR over the ten years. What is particularly 
interesting with Lasertec from a share price return view is that its stock price 
barely moved for years. ¥100 invested in Lasertec's stock in 1992 would give 
you ¥100 by 2012, 30 years later. One reason was that Lasertec, like many 
Japanese technology companies, went public during the Japanese assets 
bubble when Japanese valuations were highly elevated. Another reason is that 
  
236

the semiconductor industry is quite cyclical. During good years, investors think 
the sales boom will last forever and start assigning higher multiples to them, 
only for the imminent slowdown in sales to happen.  
Beyond its cycles, the semiconductor industry also provides another lesson on 
value chain investing. One may think investors need to predict that companies 
like Lasertec will invent something revolutionary to succeed as an investor, but 
this is not necessarily true. What many Lasertec investors that joined 
shareholders in 2017 did was they understood the broader EUV value chain 
and studied how important ASML's discoveries and lithography system 
became for the foundry industry. ASML had even published a presentation 
(see below) on companies that will benefit from the growing EUV ecosystem.  
Companies like Lasertec and Applied Materials, another outperformer, were 
mentioned several times in different applications, which signalled there could 
be something interesting in their technology. ASML even mentioned 
Lasertec's mask patterning for defect review will go on to be important for 
5nm and 3nm developments, providing a longer runway for sales.  
While you didn't need to predict this, you needed to understand the EUV 
value chain and identify which areas had potential moats and the implications 
for future demand. Another Japanese semiconductor outperformer was Tokyo 
Electron, a developer of coaters used in silicon wafer production. Tokyo 
Electron similarly benefitted from the EUV technology and saw a rapid rise in 
its earnings after 2017. Suppose you needed two years to understand the 
  
237
Image: A slide from ASML's presentation on beneficiaries of the broader EUV ecosystem. 
(ASML IR presentation) 

value chain and missed the initial 300% return between 2017-2019, you could 
have still gained 1,000% in the following period on a Lasertec investment. 
Inventions like EUV lithography come every now and then, and their 
beneficiaries and broader ecosystem should be studied closely if the goal is 
outperformance. The best opportunities are often not too far from these fast-
growth themes; we similarly saw some of the best global performers in other 
fast-growth and game-changing industries like cell-based therapy and solar 
energy. 
  
238
New inventions can sometimes accelerate growth and profitability, as with Lasertec post-2016. 
Operating profits grew almost five-fold between 2016 and 2021 due to its opportunity in EUV 
mask inspection.  
Valuations got ahead of themselves in 2021 and shares have fallen by almost -50% in the first 
five months of 2022.  
¥ m
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Revenue
11,397
13,607
15,187
15,291
17,369
21,252
28,769
42,572
70,248
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
6,042
7,042
6,709
6,404
7,815
9,252
12,853
19,581
33,296
Gross 
Profit
5,355
6,565
8,478
8,887
9,554
12,000
15,916
22,991
36,952
Op. Cost
3,205
3,467
3,755
4,459
4,593
6,315
7,975
7,929
10,878
EBIT
2,150
3,098
4,723
4,428
4,961
5,685
7,941
15,062
26,074
Revenue
(7.6%)
19.4%
11.6%
0.7%
13.6%
22.4%
35.4%
48.0%
65.0%
EBIT 
Growth
(30.4%)
44.1%
52.5%
(6.2%)
12.0%
14.6%
39.7%
89.7%
73.1%
EBIT 
Margin 
18.9%
22.8%
31.1%
29.0%
28.6%
26.8%
27.6%
35.4%
37.1%
Return 
on 
Capital 
8.0%
11.2%
15.8%
13.2%
13.4%
13.8%
17.1%
26.8%
34.5%
EV/Rev
1.72x
1.99x
1.79x
1.92x
4.37x
7.37x
8.75x
19.21x
29.57x
EV/EBIT
10.78x
26.22x
6.08x
6.84x
14.05x
26.72x
31.69x
56.24x
82.29x

Healthcare 
Outperformers: 63 companies 
Healthcare was the second best performing sector with 63 companies (14.1% 
of all outperformers) and was among the four overrepresented sectors relative 
to its market listing weight (9.4% of publicly listed companies.  
The recent pandemic has likely accelerated both fundamentals and valuations 
for the healthcare industry. That said, if we adjust the period to 2009-2019, 
prior to the pandemic, the healthcare industry had an even higher 
representation of 15.6% (versus 14.1%) of all outperformers. The healthcare 
index has also outperformed the broader MSCI World Index in the past ten 
years and to gain a detailed perspective on if the valuations are justified, we 
need to consider the broader healthcare innovations, advancements and 
technologies, and their impact on the sector’s scale, growth and future 
profitability.  
We split healthcare into six segments; 
•
Healthcare equipment and 
supplies (13 companies) 
•
Healthcare providers and services 
(9 companies) 
•
H e a l t h c a r e t e c h n o l o g y ( 4 
companies) 
•
Pharmaceuticals (17 companies) 
•
Biotechnology (12 companies) 
•
Life sciences tools and services (8 
companies)  
  
Pharmaceuticals and the healthcare 
equipments segments produced the 
most opportunities in the healthcare industry. Both are also the largest 
segments within healthcare explaining their outperformance relative to the 
rest. The pharmaceutical industry was led in market capitalisation by two 
Chinese companies, Zhangzhou Pientzehuang Pharmaceutical and CSPC 
Pharmaceutical Group. Zhangzhou Pientzehuang is an SOE and the sole 
maker of Pien Tze Huang, a traditional Chinese herbal drug used as an anti-
  
239
13%
27%
19%
6%
14%
21%
Healthcare Equipment
Healthcare Providers
Healthcare Technology
Biotechnology
Pharmaceuticals
Life Sciences

inflammation and pain relief, and has been in use since the Ming Dynasty in 
the 1500s. Whereas, CSPC manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients 
(API) and formulations of over 1,000 products. Both compounded earnings by 
more than 25% CAGR over the decade.  
India had the largest representation in the pharmaceutical industry with six of 
the 17 companies and we explore Abbott India to understand what is driving 
the Indian pharmaceutical industry.  
Aier Eye Hospital, China’s largest eye care chain with over 600 hospitals led 
the healthcare provider sub-segment in both share price performance and 
market capitalisation. Aier Eye care was not the only eye care chain, Universal 
Vision Biotechnology in Taiwan similarly benefitted from the fast-growing laser 
eye surgery in Asia. Overall, the healthcare provider and services segment had 
nine companies from broadly diversified countries.  
The healthcare technology industry was only recently established and has just 
124 companies listed globally with a market capitalisation greater than $50 
million, compared to 1,100 companies in healthcare equipments, for example. 
The segment also contributed the least within the overall healthcare industry 
with just four companies. For our case study, we explored one of the top three 
largest healthcare technology companies, M3 to gain some perspective on 
how the sub-sector is changing how healthcare is delivered to consumers.  
The US led the healthcare equipment thanks to both diabetes system 
providers, Dexcom and Insulet. Both companies recently partnered to 
integrate the Dexcom G6 and Insulet’s Omnipod to support the more than 
400 million people living with diabetes.  
The Nordic countries except Norway also had some representation in the 
equipment market and Finland’s Revenio Group was the best performing 
company with a total return of 3,925% thanks to its iCare ophthalmic 
diagnostics device used in detecting, screening and monitoring glaucoma, 
diabetic retinopathy and macular degeneration.  
Both Biotechnology and life sciences have seen tremendous innovation from 
genome sequencing and cell-based therapy to the role artificial intelligence 
plays in research and development, diagnostics, delivery and monitoring. 
Together, both industries had 20 companies in the subset group with all but 
  
240

one coming from developed countries. The US alone represented almost half 
of the companies across both industries with Thermo Fisher Scientific, the 
supplier of scientific instruments and consumables, being the largest. While 
companies like ChemoMetec, Biotage, Sartorius and Lonza Group were from 
European countries, each also had the US as their largest market. We analysed 
how the progress in cell-based therapy transformed the applications and 
growth potential of ChemoMetec, the Danish cell-counting company.  
Overall, the healthcare industry had many strong companies with growing 
competitive advantages. With the growing role technology plays in the 
industry, we are likely to see even more outperformers in future years given 
the potential for scale and improved profitability in both cost and time 
savings.  
  
241

Abbott India - India’s pharmaceutical growth  
Return: 1,170% 
Abbott Laboratories established its Indian subsidiary during the 1910s to 
expand its global reach into the South Asian market. The company was 
incorporated in 1944 as Boots Pure Drug Company Limited and after several 
name changes, it became known as Abbott India in 2002. Today, Abbott India 
is one of India's fastest growing pharmaceutical companies, with over 400+ 
branded generic pharmaceuticals in 80% of therapy areas, serving the nation's 
500,000+ pharmacy market. Abbott India doesn't provide a percentage 
breakdown of its segments, but we can segment its divisions into:  
•
Women’s health: menarche, pregnancy and menopause support. Key 
products include DUPHASTON and Duvadilan.  
•
Gastroenterology: different areas of gut care, treating constipation, 
irritable bowel syndrome and pancreatic exocrine insufficiency. Key 
products include Ganaton and Cremaffin. 
•
Multi-speciality: products that cater to a wide range of conditions like 
headache, insomnia or overall well-being. Key products include BRUFEN 
and CONTRAMAL. 
•
Metabolics: offers treatment for hypothyroidism. 
•
Central nervous system (CNS): products help people better manage their 
acute and chronic problems in areas like migraine, epilepsy and vertigo. 
Products include Lacoxa and Levilex. 
•
Vaccines: the portfolio addresses influenza, typhoid, diarrhoea and 
hepatitis A. Products include Influvac and Roatsure. 
•
Consumer health: they support everyday issues like Digene in bloating 
from excessive gas.   
  
242
Image: 16 of Abbott India’s top 20 brands rank as either number 1 or 2 in their respective 
markets. (annual report) 

Abbott India's portfolio, as you see, is pretty broad, and in most of their key 
market segments, they maintain either a number 1 or 2 market position versus 
peers. For example, Abbott's Duphaston has a 75% market share in 
treatments for cycle disorders in women's wellness. Thyronorm in the 
metabolics division continues to maintain its market leadership and has 
achieved further gains in India's tier 2 and 3 cities. 
Investment Case 
India's role in pharmaceutical and generic drugs has substantially increased in 
recent years. The industry supplies 50% of the global demand for various 
vaccines, 40% of the generic drug supply in the US comes from Indian plants, 
while 25% of all medicine in the UK comes from India. Over the last two 
decades, the industry has experienced a tenfold growth and has further grown 
its position in the lower-margin, generic drug market; India ranks third globally 
in production by volume but 14th by value.  
The industry's domestic and export market growth can be attributed to many 
factors shared by the public and private sectors. From an export view, the 
government increased its allocation to support contract manufacturers and 
attract multinational companies into the country. From a domestic market 
view, efforts by the Indian government go back to the formation of the 
National Health Policy of India (NHP) in the 1980s and today, the scale of the 
resources dedicated to healthcare is much larger. India recently launched the 
world's largest health insurance support in 2018, called the Ayushman Bharat 
initiative, which aims to provide free access to health insurance coverage for 
low-income earners (500 million people) in India. In the private space, 
pharmacy chains like Apollo Hospitals and MedPlus, representing 5% of the 
Indian retail market, have expanded aggressively, boosting supply capabilities 
and access to drugs manufactured by pharmaceuticals like Abbott India. The 
Indian wealth creation and health awareness have also increased the branded 
generic segment, which accounts for 80% of the retail market.  
Abbott India has always been a consistent grower; between 2001-2011, 
revenue compounded by 16% per year while operating earnings compounded 
by 10% per year, but its growth sped up during the past ten years, a period 
operating earnings compounded by 20% per year. The reasons for this growth 
are twofold; product innovation and improved product communication. 
  
243

Innovation 
Abbott India has a structural advantage over domestic peers due to the global 
Abbott scale. The Indian subsidiary has increasingly become an important 
innovation hub for Abbott, and the group continues to allocate more 
resources to its Mumbai offices. In 2016, the parent company announced that 
Abbott India would double its local scientific capacity in formulation 
development and packaging technologists. The focus on these areas came 
from a realisation that its customers were very different and products needed 
more tailoring to local demands. An example of one of its domestic 
innovations is the dual-chamber container for antibiotics. Unlike dry-
suspension medicines, the dual-chamber containers do not require water to 
be added, and the powder-mix and liquid packs can last longer.  
Product communication 
Abbott India realised price controls were likely to be under more pressure 
after the Drugs Prices Control Order (DPCO) in 2013 and then looked more 
towards volume rather than pricing power for growth. Abbott India improved 
how it communicated and engaged with Indian consumers via its marketing 
campaigns and partnerships to drive awareness. Campaigns like 
ConstipationConversations and Thyroweight were well received by the public 
and each reached millions of Indians via social media and TV adverts. The 
Thyroid campaigns have been particularly positive (11% of the Indian 
population suffers from thyroid disorders) and screening and awareness 
numbers saw an uptick during the decade. Abbott's Thyronorm brand now 
has a 52% market share in the country.  
The improved relationship and feedback loop with its customers has also 
allowed Abbott to respond faster to demands and changing markets. In 2017, 
Abbott launched 21 products, compared to 13 launched in 2011, and 
management attributed the product portfolio growth to its improved 
marketing capabilities.  
As a result of these factors, revenue and operating profits compounded by 
11% and 20%, respectively, and its multiples also expanded from 1.8x EV/
Revenue (15.6x EV/EBIT) in 2012 to 7.3x EV/Revenue (35.1x EV/EBIT) in 2021.  
  
244

Lesson 
While company-specific drivers supported Abbott India and the rest of the 
Indian pharmaceutical industry's outperformance, broader macro and industry 
policy also influenced their earnings growth. Every top ten Indian 
pharmaceutical company except Dr Reddy's Laboratories compounded both 
revenue and operating profits by more than 10% per year and six companies 
went on to become outperformers, producing returns greater than 1,000% 
over the ten years. It's often common for stock pickers to select companies 
with little macro or "government policy" risk but doing this in pharmaceuticals 
is incredibly challenging given the role policy plays in R&D focus, pricing and 
product strategy for pharmaceuticals. To have spotted the growing 
opportunity in the Indian pharmaceutical industry, investors would have 
needed to understand the broader industry forces driving the sector's 
domestic growth and export opportunities, from market reforms to pricing and 
production support policies.  
The government mandated a 10.1% price reduction across some of the 
portfolio of brands in Abbott's vaccines and speciality care divisions. This led 
to an initial pessimistic market reaction, but as we have learned, good 
management teams find solutions to problems and in Abbott India, 
management steeped up other areas for growth like its outreach strategy, 
innovation focus to grow product portfolio and its marketing to compensate 
for the reduction in pricing.  
Developed market parent, emerging market subsidiary 
A few global conglomerates like Abbott, British American Tobacco, Colgate, 
Nestle and Unilever list their subsidiaries in emerging markets. In many cases, 
as with Abbott India, they grow faster and earn a better return on capital than 
their parents. There are many reasons why these companies list their 
subsidiaries. Some typical reasons include meeting local expectations or laws 
around foreign ownership, improving capital constraints with taking money in/
out of the country and improving the liquidity for shares for local investors.  
There are many ways these subsidiaries capitalise on the parent company to 
achieve advantages against domestic peers and these must be considered 
during competitive analysis. For Abbott India, these benefits played a pivotal 
role in its outperformance. In 2009, Abbott acquired Solvay SA's drug division 
  
245

and one of the synergies highlighted was the integration between Abbott 
India and Solvay India. The parent company also allocated more global 
resources towards India as it scaled its R&D and portfolio during the decade.  
  
246
Abbott India’s profits grew faster than revenue due to the efficiencies gained in delivering 
products to customers from its improved marketing and sales channels, to its various 
partnerships with pharmacies in metro cities and more recently, tier 2 cities.  
₹ m
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Revenue
18,694
22,893
26,145
29,026
32,985
36,786
40,931
43,100
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
10,876
13,207
14,998
17,198
19,122
20,975
23,252
24,003
Gross 
Profit
7,818
9,686
11,147
11,828
13,863
15,811
17,680
19,097
Op. Cost
5,666
6,646
7,611
7,969
8,727
9,889
10,625
10,424
EBIT
2,152
3,040
3,536
3,859
5,136
5,923
7,055
8,673
EBIT 
Margin
11.5%
13.3%
13.5%
13.3%
15.6%
16.1%
17.2%
20.1%
EBIT 
growth
16.3%
41.3%
16.3%
9.1%
33.1%
15.3%
19.1%
22.9%
EV/
Revenue
2.35x
3.90x
3.55x
2.92x
4.00x
4.84x
7.66x
8.00x
EV/EBIT
19.12x
29.58x
26.29x
22.03x
25.64x
29.97x
42.85x
40.44x

M3 (Japan’s leading healthcare technology platform) 
Return: 1,186% 
M3, which stands for "Medicine, Media and Metamorphosis", is a Japanese 
medical technology platform for healthcare professionals founded in 2000 by 
its current president, Itaru Tanimura, after a 12-year career as a business 
consultant. M3 initially started with the MR-kun service, a communication tool 
connecting doctors with medical representatives from pharmaceutical 
companies to aid sales.  
After the launch of MR-kun, M3 launched and acquired a wide range of 
technology platforms in the healthcare industry. For example, Research-kun 
helped doctors publish and share research via the internet. There was also 
M3MT which supported medical companies with marketing, and M3 CAREER, 
which allowed doctors with recruiting and HR support. By 2008, M3 had more 
than 390,000 medical professionals using its various platforms worldwide.  
M3 also has a venture fund that supports its pipeline for future acquisitions or 
passive investment companies. Some examples are Mebix, a provider of 
specialised support for clinical research from statistical analysis to support in 
drafting articles and Medlive, a platform similar to M3 but for the Chinese 
market.  
  
Today, M3's many divisions are split into 
four main segments and then its overseas 
business;  
•
Medical platform (41% of revenue) 
•
Site solutions (17% of revenue) 
•
Evidence solution (10% of revenue) 
•
Career solution (7% of revenue) 
•
Overseas and others (25% of revenue) 
Sony currently owns a 34% stake in M3 
Japan.  
  
247
25%
7%
10%
17%
41%
Medical platform 
Site solution 
Evidence solution 
Career solution 
Oversees

Investment Case 
M3, at first glance, may seem like a complex web of different businesses, but 
at its core, it is simply a platform that solves problems for healthcare 
professionals.  
At the time of M3 founding in 2000, Japan was the second largest healthcare 
market and with an increasingly ageing population, it was clear more 
resources would be needed in various healthcare fields, from diseases more 
prone to the older generation to care homes and hospice industry.  
Itaru Tanimura, M3's founder, realised how much time and effort an internet 
platform could save doctors trying to collaborate on research and the 
efficiencies a platform could have on the sales process between 
pharmaceutical reps and doctors in Japan. M3 began addressing these issues 
via its first portal, which was like a combination of a google search engine and 
LinkedIn.  
At the top of the M3 portal, doctors could discover medical news, followed by 
a search engine tool for medical research and partner company overview. On 
the right-hand side of the portal, one can upload or find career opportunities 
that partner firms have uploaded. The two-way communication platform has 
network effects; the more doctors join and publish research on M3, the more 
valuable M3 becomes to its users.  
Its acquisition strategy also proved to be a success as it gave M3 a solid 
pipeline for further growth and development in its operations beyond Japan. 
In China, M3 owns a 29% stake in Medlive, China's largest physician platform, 
with a 21% market share in the second largest healthcare market globally. In 
the UK, M3 also own Doctors.net.uk, which is the UK's largest network with 
more than 240,000 doctors. In the US, M3 also owns MDLink, which serves as 
a Telemedicine platform that connects doctors with patients and broadens 
M3's offerings into the B2C space. Today, more than 6 million doctors 
worldwide are connected via M3's family of platforms.  
M3 was already profitable within its first couple of years and earned an 
operating profit margin of 29%. Since then, its revenue has never grown 
slower than 15% year-on-year, while its operating profit has increased yearly 
  
248

since going public. Its multiples expanded from 8.6x EV/Revenue (20.6x EV/
EBIT) in 2012 to 11.9x EV/Revenue (38.1x EV/EBIT) in 2022.  
Lesson 
Between 2005-2012, M3 returned 0% despite its debt-free balance sheet, 40%
+ operating profit margin, and annualised growth of around 30%. The poor 
share price return was due to its valuations; the market valued M3 at a 250x P/
E ratio! 
There are two lessons here. Every business has a price, no matter how strong 
its fundamentals and growth potential are. Two, whenever a company gets too 
expensive, keep it on an expensive list and watch it periodically for a potential 
decline in valuations. It is easy to forget about a company you may have once 
concluded as too expensive. Many investors likely did this, forgetting M3 
existed and missing the following share price run after 2012.  
Healthcare technology platforms can sometimes be challenging to understand 
without industry insights; non-medical practitioners can't join M3. For 
companies like M3, it is always worth meeting and interviewing some of their 
users to see how it achieves the four critical goals for any Medtech platform;  
•
Better results  
•
Cheaper than previous methods 
•
Saves time  
•
Increased accessibility  
For M3, the platforms certainly achieved all four for doctors and medical 
practitioners. For example, the Research-kun portal reduced the time for the 
average physician survey from 10 weeks to just three days, while the average 
cost fell by half when compared with traditional alternatives. Achieving these 
goals is crucial to success for all Medtech investment cases.  
Finally, transitioning beyond the first product or application while maintaining 
the same purpose is crucial in healthcare investing because of how difficult 
building moats and competitive advantages are; this was something most 
healthcare outperformers achieved. While M3 still focuses on its purpose of 
using the internet to improve the efficiency and quality of healthcare, M3 was 
aggressive with developing its apps into more areas it could support 
healthcare professionals and with acquisitions of other technology platforms 
  
249

beyond Japan. The diversification allowed M3 to defend itself against peers 
and the broader Big Tech peers.  
  
250
Since going public, M3 has been a stable, profitable and growth compounder.Revenue 
grew eight-fold while earnings grew seven-fold during the period.  
Shareholders who paid 97x EV/EBIT have seen a 70% drawdown in M3’s shares. It’s 
important to a close eye on valuations even when fundamentals are strong. 
 ¥ m
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Rev
19,040
26,007
36,887
51,346
64,660
78,143
94,471
113,059
130,973
169,198
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
4,781
7,609
11,899
20,499
26,970
32,103
40,722
49,216
58,086
65,798
Gross 
Profit
14,259
18,398
24,988
30,847
37,690
46,040
53,749
63,843
72,887
103,400
Op. 
Cost
6,611
9,129
12,680
15,552
18,088
22,161
26,713
36,044
38,435
44,562
EBIT
7,648
9,269
12,308
15,295
19,602
23,879
27,036
27,799
34,452
58,838
EBIT 
Margin 
40.2%
35.6%
33.4%
29.8%
30.3%
30.6%
28.6%
24.6%
26.3%
34.8%
EBIT 
Growth
26.8%
21.2%
32.8%
24.3%
28.2%
21.8%
13.2%
2.8%
23.9%
70.8%
EV/Rev
9.87x
12.75x
13.76x
15.18x
14.95x
12.61x
14.26x
12.53x
26.12x
30.00x
EV/EBIT
24.60x
35.66x
40.92x
49.82x
48.70x
40.18x
48.93x
49.39x
97.03x
91.14x

ChemoMetec - Enabled by cell-based therapy  
Return: 20,053% 
ChemoMetec is a manufacturer of cell counting  and analysis equipment for 
the life sciences industry and was founded in 1997 in Denmark. 
ChemoMetec's first product came in 1999 through a license agreement with 
Tetra Laval, and in 2000, the first NucleoCounter NC-100 was launched. 
NucleoCounter users can perform automated cell counting analyses of 
mammalian white blood cells in a blood sample, used by researchers, 
pharmaceuticals and hospitals to gain better perspectives on potential viruses 
and bacteria and gauge the progress of an immune system, among other 
applications.  
The NucleoCounter is still ChemoMetec's core product, but there are more 
applications and variations beyond the NC-100, such as the NC-200, NC-250, 
NC-3000 and NC-202. These instruments have a fluorescence microscope 
with a built-in camera and images can be analysed when connected to a 
computer via its cell counting software. The ChemoMetec cassettes, test kits 
and reagents are sold to users as consumables alongside the core 
NucleoCounter device. These consumables currently make up 40% of 
ChemoMetec's current sales.  
 
There are six key applications for ChemoMetec’s products;  
•
Cell-based therapy  
•
Gene therapy  
•
Stem cell therapy  
  
251
Image: ChemoMetec’s core product are its NucleoCounters (left). The NucleoCounter’s are 
used with consumables like reagents, cassettes, and the Lysis Buffer solution. (Rose Scientific) 

•
Bioprocessing  
•
Analysis of animal semen  
•
Production and process control of beer 
The first four applications are grouped together and often called the LCB 
market (life science research, cell-based research and bioprocessing) and 
currently represent 90% of ChemoMetec's sales. The LCB market is growing 
7% per year and ChemoMetec's overall share is around 20% of the market, 
making it one of the three market leaders.  
Investment Case 
There is a lot of industry jargon in the description above, but this is typical in 
the life sciences and biotechnology industry. At its core, ChemoMetec is very 
similar to the Gillette model and you can think of the NucleoCounter as the 
razor blade in the Gillette model. The NucleoCounter’s have four key 
customer segments;  
•
Research and development bodies  
•
Hospitals and laboratories  
•
Pharmaceutical and biotech companies  
•
Manufacturing companies in beer production  
The NucleoCounter has varying prices but is typically around $20,000 per 
device. The consumables such as the test kits, cassettes and reagents are like 
  
252
14%
36%
50%
USA
Europe 
Other countries
1%
10%
40%
49%
Instruments 
Consumables 
Services
Other
A breakdown of ChemoMetec’s sales by geography (left) and product type (right) 

the blade in the Gillette model and are more recurring in sales and sold via 
ChemoMetec's global team of distributors.  
There are a few reasons why ChemoMetec has been quite successful. As we 
learned from M3, healthcare companies of all types need to fulfil the 
following;  
•
Better result/more accurate/higher quality  
•
Cheaper price 
•
Easier to use and access  
•
More minimal invasive  
Users have many options in cell counting, from the manual cell counting 
method, which requires a hemocytometer, to the automated cell counting 
techniques which the NucleoCounter falls under. The cassettes that come with 
the NucleoCounter allow you to load the cell sample very quickly and 
efficiently. Once the cassette is inserted, users can get their results presented 
on the connected computer within a few seconds, which is much faster than 
the traditional method. The one area ChemoMetec fails is in price and its high 
NucleoCounter price makes it unattractive for university students, where cost 
is critical.   
Cell-based therapy  
The growth of the cell-based therapy market has become ChemoMetec's 
most significant driving factor. In 2012, the phrase "cell-based therapy" was 
not mentioned in its annual report, but in its latest copy, it was mentioned 37 
times! An application is in CAR-T therapy, where cancer patients are injected 
with a dose of immune cells, subsequently initiating an attack on the patient's 
cells. Cell counters like the NucleoCounter NC-202 are essential during the 
therapy, and as more therapies get approved, the higher the demand for cell 
counters like the NucleoCounter will increase. 
Another key driver for ChemoMetec has been the growing compliance 
requirements and documentation of cell counting results. Documentation 
means the need for devices to be automated and connected to imaging 
software is more crucial and has also accelerated the role of automated cell 
counters. From a compliance view, research consumables need to be fixed 
and consistent across all instruments, which has also increased the demand for 
ChemoMetec's consumables division.  
  
253

Overall, the many driving factors alongside its broadened portfolio of cell 
counters and consumables dramatically changed ChemoMetec's fortunes. 
Between 2012-2022, revenues and operating profits compounded by 25% 
and 62% CAGR, and operating profit margins increased from 0.8% to 46% 
during the period. As its financials improved, the market re-rated its multiples 
from 1.9x EV/Revenue (50.6x EV/EBIT) in 2012 to 36x EV/Revenue (79.3x EV/
EBIT).  
Lesson  
ChemoMetec was the best performing healthcare company in the subset 
group with a total return of 20,054% (69.9% CAGR) over the ten years. But 
from its IPO in 2006 till 2015, an investor would have made 0% on its stock. 
Investors had paid 296x EV/EBIT or 18x EV/Revenue for ChemoMetec despite 
growth being extremely lumpy and operating profit margins not justifying high 
multiples (6.4% in 2007).  
We certainly would have missed out on their investment pitch due to our lack 
of knowledge of the overall cytometry industry and its application. The change 
in ChemoMetec's prospects wasn't necessarily due to controllable factors or a 
new product. It was due to the rise in cell-based therapies, which 
management hadn't even predicted. This emphasises the importance of being 
aware of the broader trends and applications occurring in the wider space, 
especially in more innovation-focused industries like healthcare and 
information technology. For every successful company that benefits from the 
broader shifts as ChemoMetec did, there are hundreds of companies with 
products or services that become obsolete due to factors and innovation 
beyond their control. Investors who had studied the rise of cell-based therapy 
would have understood the opportunity for companies enabled by its impact, 
like ChemoMetec, Sartorius and CellaVision. There's no substitute for learning 
in investing.  
  
254

  
  
255
ChemoMetec’s fortunes changed with the increasing adoption of cell-based therapy in 
healthcare. Operating profit margins increased from 0.8% to 41.3% between 2012 and 
2021.  
ChemoMetec is a rare example of an outperformer starting from high multiples (62x EV/
EBIT). The high fixed cost and room for significant margin expansion meant the potential 
for earnings growth was quite high.  
At 130x EV/EBIT today with an EBIT margin of 41%, one should not expect the same 
return potential going forward. 
Kr. m
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Revenue
39.2
41.4
45.2
61.2
85.2
90.3
112.7
175.5
214.1
281.1
Cost Of 
Goods 
Sold
4.2
4.4
4.6
9.0
12.9
10.1
13.2
16.9
20.2
27.8
Gross 
Profit
35.0
37.0
40.6
52.2
72.3
80.2
99.5
158.6
193.9
253.3
Op. Cost
34.7
35.5
39.0
46.4
56.4
69.8
75.2
104.5
112.4
137.3
EBIT
0.3
1.5
1.6
5.8
15.9
10.4
24.3
54.1
81.5
116.0
EV/
Revenue
1.73x
1.48x
1.61x
5.86x
7.73x
6.12x
8.55x
16.88x
26.65x
53.80x
EV/EBIT
62.11x
39.97x
36.82x
90.93x
54.21x
58.59x
46.48x
58.65x
78.74x
129.51x
EBIT 
Margin 
0.8%
3.5%
3.6%
9.5%
18.7%
11.5%
21.5%
30.8%
38.1%
41.3%
EBIT 
Growth
(60.4%)
377.5%
12.7%
254.1%
172.8%
(34.5%)
133.1%
122.7%
50.6%
42.4%

Ten lessons on global outperformance 
There was a lot to unpack in our study of global outperformers so we 
understand if some sections were skipped while others may need to be 
revisited. While reviewing the past provides great data points, information and 
insights, applying the wisdom in the present and the frameworks for the future 
is what truly matters in investing. We have put together ten crucial learning 
points and lessons we believe achieving global outperformance as an investor 
requires.  
You may notice a few lessons slightly contradict each other; lessons 3 and 4. 
This isn’t a mistake but is the reality of what is required from investors that 
outperform. If we had to separate the most significant trait that differentiates 
outperformers from the average is outperformers know how to balance 
contrasting frameworks, philosophies and mental models; combining a big 
picture mindset (seeing a forest) with attention to the little details (seeing 
trees), being both value and growth investing, analysing both bottom-up and 
top-down or being patient while also knowing when an investor needs to be 
aggressive.   
1. Open-mindedness and ﬂexibility  
While various characteristics, geographies and industries are likely to produce 
more outperformers than other areas, great investments can come from 
anywhere. Investors (including me) have many biases that may help but can 
also hurt their journey to achieving outperformance.  
•
“I don’t invest in cyclical sectors like materials and industrials” 
•
“I only invest in fast growth companies growing revenue 40% per year” 
•
“I don’t invest in companies with political ownership”  
•
“I don’t invest in emerging markets” 
•
“I only invest in companies that have recently gone public” 
These are just some of the many quotes we tell ourselves that lead to missing 
out on many great investments. As many growth funds do, investing in only 
technology, healthcare and consumer industries would have missed out on 
40% of the other outperformers from cyclical sectors like materials and 
industrials. Investing in only developed markets would also have led you to 
miss out on 37% of the outperformers. As we explored in this research, open-
  
256

mindedness and flexibility are essential to global outperformance. That said, 
investment flexibility is not a substitute for due diligence. Every investment 
requires you to understand its business model and key drivers.  
2. The future is Asia  
59% of the global outperformers over the past decade came from Asia, yet, 
Asia only represents 10% of global mutual fund portfolios. We admit that 
there is some recency bias here, but the insights we gained during our 
research gives us many reasons to be optimistic about Asia despite the 
headlines. First, 40% of the global GDP comes from Asia, compared to 34% 
ten years ago and 26% 20 years ago. During the same 20 year period, Europe 
fell from 31% to 23% while North America fell from 36% to 28%. The 
economic catch-up we saw among the Asian countries in key indicators like 
economic output, the standard of living and technological advancements has 
created many growth-minded businesses.  
As we learned, the economic progress did not necessarily trickle into the Asian 
stock market as many Asian countries underperformed the MSCI World Index. 
The reason behind this underperformance was that the larger companies 
tended to be slower growth conglomerates and SOEs with less favourable 
economics. If you look beyond these companies, there's an enormous range 
of fantastic companies available. You can read the Airports of Thailand and 
Phat Dat Real Estate investment case studies to see how some Asian 
companies benefitted from the broader macroeconomic trends.  
Second, Asian equities are more under-researched and often have bigger 
valuation gaps than their western peers. In industries dominated by Asian 
companies, like semiconductors, IT services and healthcare, we saw many 
Asian companies with better economics and more growth potential priced at 
much lower multiples than their western counterparts. Indian IT services, for 
example, made most of the revenue in US dollars via their foreign subsidiaries 
but were priced like domestic Indian companies during volatile currency years 
like 2016.  
Investing in Asia is no different from investing elsewhere. As we learned from 
the Japanese and Chinese reviews (see the geography section), fear and 
greed similarly drive markets, and investors should not blindly buy into country 
themes due to macro sentiment and market popularity. Investing in an MSCI 
  
257

China ETF would have returned just 1.32% annualised over 30 years despite 
the 40-fold rise in its GDP. Themes and specific stocks fundamentals are 
different, which brings us to the next point on thematic investing.  
3. The strengths and pitfalls of thematic investing  
Thematic investing is one of the financial inventions we saw explode during 
the decade via the creation of ETFs, active mutual funds and other investment 
options. Outperformers like MSCI, Bure Equity AB and Impax Asset 
Management directly benefitted from thematic investing as their business 
models relied on the success of various themes. Thinking in investment 
themes is a good framework for a bigger picture lens into potential 
outperformers.  
The most prominent theme over the decade was the rise of sustainable energy 
and a well-thought-out theme process could have directed you to 
outperformers like BYD and Tesla in renewable cars, Vestas Wind System and 
Terna Energy in wind energy, LONGi Green Energy and Enphase Energy in 
solar photovoltaic energy.  
The danger with an overreliance on thematic investing is that it sometimes 
distracts one from what truly matters, the fundamentals. For every Tesla and 
BYD, hundreds of companies similarly had a great thematic story but yet failed 
to have any material share price gains over the decade. An example was Giga 
Solar Materials which similarly saw gold in solar photovoltaic energy like 
LONGi Green Energy but returned -24% over the decade. Another example 
was RWE Aktiengesellschaft, Germany's largest renewable utility company. 
RWE even had a better story than Terna Energy in wind energy, given its the 
second largest wind utility company. Yet, it only returned 19% during the 
decade despite its market domination and over 120 years of experience.  
Finding the right theme is only 10% of the investment journey. What matters is 
identifying the handful of winners that are undervalued by the market with 
great potential, and not every company with a great thematic story will qualify 
as a great investment. Before we revisit more lessons on fundamentals, let's 
explore thematic investing put to good use as a screening tool.  
  
258

4. Value chain investing   
Screening provides an investor with an efficient process to scan through the 
50,000+ listed companies via various metrics, but some companies do not 
necessarily screen well but yet have significant upside. An EBIT margin >0% 
filter would have missed out on the cyclical companies that were loss-making 
during the financial year, i.e. Sony Group in 2012. An EV/EBIT <10x filter 
would also miss out on high growth, high multiple companies like Amazon 
that were undervalued despite their high multiples, i.e. Amazon in 2012.  
One process we learned, especially when applied to high growth and new 
theme sectors, is called the value chain investment process. Civilisation every 
now and then ushers in a new industry that revolutionises how we do things, 
and many beneficiaries may not screen well at first glance. In these cases, 
focusing on the value chain rather than metric-based screening processes is 
much more helpful. Let's walk through an application of the value chain 
investment process.  
Value chain investing: solar energy  
In the early 2010s, governments, consumers, and other stakeholders began 
demanding and investing heavily in alternative energy generation, and by 
2012, it was clear solar energy would become one of these alternatives as it 
grew 76% in the US and doubled in capacity in China. Many companies were 
also preparing for the solar expansion, but the difficulty was that the industry 
was still niche, and it was unclear who the winners would be.  
These situations are ideal for the value chain investment process, which 
requires one to:  
•
Build a flow chart of how a product/service is created, distributed, sold 
and consumed by the end-user  
•
Identify what determines the price, quantity, variable and fixed costs of 
each segment 
•
Identify the current market leaders and the sections that already show high 
earnings potential 
Overall, 26 of the 446 outperformers directly benefitted from the rise of solar 
energy, while another 20 companies were second-order beneficiaries of it. The 
chart below shares a simplified solar energy value chain from raw materials to 
  
259

residential and non-residential energy consumers. As you will see, the value 
chain process provides a much clearer picture than attempting to screen by 
metrics or traditional investing methods. Let's explore each process and how 
they contributed to the outperformers.  
Raw materials (silicon): Polysilicon is the key raw material used in making 
solar cells (polysilicon is melted to form ingots). The two largest listed 
producers, Tongwei and Daqo New Energy were among the outperformers. 
Although Daqo was much smaller than it is today, it was already among the 
leaders in polysilicon production. If you relied on a profit-led quantitative 
screen in 2012, you would have missed out on Daqo. They were profitable in 
2011 but temporarily suspended plants in Wanzhou, which moved the group 
into losses in 2012. By 2014, Daqo was back into profitability with EBIT 
margins at 18%.  
Solar cell manufacturers: Solar cell manufacturers are, on average, less 
profitable than polysilicon companies as they spend more on sales and 
marketing while being equally cyclical. The growth opportunity was still 
present, and outperformers like JinkoSolar and LONGi Green benefitted from 
the growth of solar energy.  
A golden rule in commodity investing is to search for value-added producers 
with more advanced products, which allows them to earn higher margins. 
LONGi Green was one of these companies, thanks to its monocrystalline 
  
260

silicon wafers. Due to their charge carrier flow, their wafers have superior solar 
performance compared to polysilicon-based PVs. 
Value chain investors would notice LONGi Green has more than double 
JinkoSolar's margins (higher prices, lower marketing costs, higher profits). In 
2013, LONGi was selected among the most innovative companies in the world 
and became the largest global manufacturer of monocrystalline wafers. LONGi 
also had the highest share price appreciation among the producers, with a 
4,734% return as earnings grew almost 100-fold between 2013 and 2021! 
Utilities, installation and project management: The solar wafer and module 
manufacturers then sell their products to customers, typically utility and 
project management companies. This section is not economically attractive, 
but due to government support such as subsidies and feed-in tariffs, utility 
companies can earn good margins and scale fast. An example of a utility 
beneficiary was Solaria Energia.  
Spain has one of the hottest climates in Europe, which is great for solar 
energy, and Solaria Energia was the first solar company to list on the Madrid 
stock exchange. Solaria, like many solar players, did not screen well in 2012. 
Solaria was slightly different from others because it had just discontinued its 
legacy solar PV production plants to focus more on solar installation across 
Spain, Italy and Latin America. Value chain investors who studied the 
polysilicon market would have noticed that solar, compared to other forms of 
energy, is more of a "winner take most" industry. This will have helped you 
understand why Solaria needed to re-focus its business strategy due to the 
Chinese dominance, cost and scale advantages. Solaria later went from a loss 
margin of -23% in 2012 to a profit margin of 39% by 2017 and returned 
7,126%.  
Other utility and installation companies like Enlight Renewable Energy in 
Israel, West Holdings in Japan and Super Energy in Thailand similarly 
benefitted from the growing consumer demand for solar energy.  
Storage and inverters: Consumers can either connect their homes to the 
national grid or install solar panels on their roofs. Solar panels generate direct 
current (DC) electricity which needs to be converted to alternative current (AC) 
for grid use. Without inverters, the solar panel system is useless to 
households. Margins can be fairly attractive and also less cyclical than solar PV 
  
261

manufacturers as well. Sungrow Power was among the direct beneficiaries of 
the growth of inverters for both residential and commercial large scale use and 
is currently the second largest manufacturer. By 2008, Sungrow was already 
profitable and has maintained profitability every year since then with revenues 
compounding 40% CAGR over the past decade.  
Another type of inverter are microinverters which connect directly to each 
solar panel rather than the overall system. The market here is smaller, more 
expensive, requires a longer installation process but can be more efficient for 
small residential buildings. Microinverters may seem like a new innovation, but 
in 2008, Enphase Energy had already released its first inverter and by 2012, 
Enphase Energy commanded a 20% market share in North America. Enphase 
Energy however, did not screen well due to its then loss margins, but at just 
0.2x EV/Revenue and a market leadership in a big and growing industry, it’s 
not a surprise to see it become an outperformer.  
As you can see, focusing more on the value chain provides a deeper insight 
into how an industry truly works because it portrays a better picture of what 
drives growth and profitability. Of course, we have some hindsight bias and 
one can not substitute value chain analysis for stock picking. It only serves as a 
screening tool to support company-focused research.  
Your turn 
Now try applying the value chain investing process to discovering some 
potential beneficiaries of future trends and growth themes you see. 
Remember, not every exciting theme works out, and you must ensure the 
technology/theme creates real value for society, i.e. makes society cleaner, 
allows us to do things easier, faster, safer, more accurately or reliably. It would 
be better to focus on companies with their business segments concentrated 
on the theme, which provides better exposure to the upside. Other energy 
companies like Shell, BP and TotalEnergies also had some solar operations, 
but they achieved very different results because their business segments were 
concentrated in other energy applications.  
Once you map your value chain, circle the segments you think have the 
opportunity for value-added products, as LONGi Green did with its 
monocrystalline solar panels. Other key points and questions you may want to 
highlight are;  
  
262

•
Who has the lowest cost of production? 
•
Who is growing market share the fastest? Why? 
•
Which players are likely to earn the best profit margins? Why? 
Once those are answered, select your top five companies and compare the 
results to what you had in your stock screener.  
5. Disciplined optimism  
There were many reasons to have removed your money from the stock market 
during the past decade. Greece commenced the decade with a severe debt 
crisis but still produced as many outperformers as the Netherlands and 
Switzerland combined. The US-China trade wars should have made 
outperforming in sectors like semiconductors and Chinese solar energy 
impossible. Brexit in the UK should have made the financials sector 
"uninvestable". The Japanese economy fell into an unexpected recession in 
2014, and market commentators advised foreign investors to withdraw their 
investments.  
We can go on, but it is clear that investors willing to look beyond the noise, 
focus on fundamentals and maintain the stomach for the short term volatility 
will do better. Despite the bad and depressing news shown in the headlines, 
446 companies returned more than 1,000%, even in sectors and countries that 
should have been uninvestable. As we have shown in this research, what 
matters are the facts, and if the facts are in your favour, it's vital to maintain an 
optimistic mindset.  
  
263
While the decade was a bull run for global markets, there were many reasons to be 
bearish on countries and themes that went on to produce various outperformers (Wall 
Street Journal and the Financial Times) 

5b. “Disciplined” 
As we saw in recent months in 2022, it is easy for markets and valuations to 
get carried away with sentiment and euphoria. The global outperformers were 
not immune to this, as 18% have currently declined by more than -30% over 
the past nine months. Companies like Hypoport in Germany, Magazine Luiza 
in Brazil, and Benefit One in Japan have each fallen by more than -60% since 
their peak multiples at more than 100x EV/EBIT. No matter how great the 
fundamentals are, everything has a price, and it is vital to create reality check 
tools to ensure valuations are realistic. Some of the methods we have learned 
from this study is ensuring profitable companies in their steady state have an 
EV/EBIT/future growth outlook of less than <1-1.5x. 
6. Long term and patience 
Compared to 60 years ago, the average holding period of common stocks has 
fallen from 8 years to just 5.5 months. Of course, many trading strategies can 
equally generate outperformance with very short holding periods, but 
investors without genuine skill in these strategies are much better off with a 
long term mindset. By a long term mindset, we do not necessarily mean 
forever - only 18% (55 of 300 companies) that returned more than 1,000% 
between 2002 and 2012 went on to return more than 500% between 2012 
and 2022. In a long term mindset, we mean thinking in years, not days or 
weeks. The optimal period for cyclical and turnaround companies is between 
3-5 years, while compounders may be between 5-10 years from our estimates. 
(If the price remains attractive, shares should be held longer) 
Despite the outperformance over the decade, 46% of the subset companies 
had a total return of less than 20% (9.5% annualised), while 36% had returned 
negative within the first two years (2011-2013). If an investor had set a rule to 
sell companies with a negative share price return after two years, you would 
have missed out on great companies like NVIDIA, Netflix, ANTA Sports, 
SalMar and Abbott India. Some of the best-performing stocks like 
ChemoMetec, which returned more than 20,000%, would also have been 
missed.  
The short term performance of stocks says nothing about the fundamentals, 
which is why we avoided posting images of stock charts during this research.  
  
264

7. Cyclical growth  
While every industry has some form of cyclicality, 47% of the global 
outperformers came from the more cyclical industries like mining, energy, 
construction, airlines, banking, semiconductors, peripheral hardware, leisure 
consumer services, and discretionary retail, among others. It is common for 
growth and quality investors to avoid these sectors due to their industry cycles 
and thus miss out on some fantastic cyclical businesses.  
There is also a myth that investing in cyclical industries requires you to time 
investing to the nearest day, week or month. Many outperformers proved this 
to be false. You could have bought ANTA Sports at the top of the Chinese 
sports apparel cycle (two years after the Beijing Olympics in September 2010) 
and still returned 21.3% per year in the following 11 years. Another example is 
Bajaj Finserv which is heavily exposed to the Indian insurance market. India's 
life insurance premiums fell by -10% in 2012 and then by -6% in 2013, causing 
Bajaj's shares to fall by -40% during that period. If you bought their shares at 
the 2012 peak, you would have still annualised a return of 29% in the 
following ten years.  
Chinese lithium miners like Ganfeng Lithium had a similar case. Still, they more 
than doubled their share price in the following five years after the 2017 lithium 
price bubble burst.  
The common theme across all these cyclical companies was that they grew 
their business volumes over the years to compensate for the price bumps. Of 
course, your potential return would be more attractive if you timed things 
perfectly, but bad timing can still lead to great long term results if the growth 
opportunity and price paid is at a discount.  
8. Turnarounds 
Turnarounds represented a significant number of outperformers which 
surprised our expectations. Businesses struggle for many reasons; 
management may expand into new products and markets that distract them 
from the core operations. A rival company creates a superior product or 
service. After years of market leadership, bureaucracy and complacency kick 
in, leading to declining profits and revenue growth.  
  
265

As we learned from the turnaround case studies like Adobe, ANTA Sports, 
Britannia industries and Neste Oyj, they can also have very attractive returns, 
especially when they transition into growth companies post-turnaround. For 
turnarounds to become successful investments, they need; 
•
Identifiable and solvable problems 
•
Measurable indicators to gauge turnaround progress 
•
High potential for upside (mainly due to negative market sentiment)  
A good framework for turnaround investing is what Nick Sleep, an investor we 
admire, calls destination analysis. Let's apply a road trip analogy to 
understand this framework. Before setting out on a road trip, you want to 
know the distance of the journey, the speed you need to drive, and the time it 
takes to get there.  
Distance: The distance in the destination analysis framework for turnaround 
investing is the potential upside - how a business could look like if it turns its 
operations around, i.e. three times more revenue or four times more annual 
profits, among others. In most cases, operating profit margins may increase 
(Neste Oyj went from 1.7% to 14.8%), and earnings grow faster than in the 
past (Trex grew its earnings fivefold in the following three years).  
Speed and time: To arrive at your destination quickly, you need to drive 
quickly, and so do turnarounds. We typically prefer non-product-led 
turnarounds as these are much easier to solve. If the issue is ineffective 
marketing, management can reallocate the marketing budget, which could 
improve sales quickly. If the problem is distribution, new logistics partners can 
be swiftly signed, boosting inventory capabilities in the short term. 
Good turnarounds can be achieved quickly, but the best turnarounds have 
"destination shortcuts". With ANTA Sports, the other Chinese sports brands 
were doing much worse and later went bankrupt, leaving the sports apparel 
market less competitive. A less competitive market meant it could recover 
faster (speed and time) and achieve a larger revenue share(distance). ANTA 
was back in top EBIT margins within three years. Neste had a unique 
destination shortcut too. Because its renewable diesel was much cleaner than 
fossil fuels, governments were willing to subsidise Neste's renewable diesel, 
making it easier for Neste to win clients, grow their volumes (speed and time), 
and earn better profit margins and profit growth (distance). 
  
266

You can review some investment case studies again to see how the destination 
analysis applies there and then, on your own, attempt the framework for future 
turnarounds. Remember, you want:  
•
Investments that have a long distance (huge upside)  
•
Turnarounds that can be solved with simple and quick fixes (speed and 
time) 
•
Have potential destination shortcuts due to the external environment 
9. Creativity and imagination  
Destination shortcuts, as explained above, can apply to any investment style 
and even boring stalwarts and cyclical companies. But spotting these shortcuts 
requires pattern recognition, creativity and imagination. In the solar energy 
value chain case study, we explored how polysilicon's growth drove the 
demand for microinverters. Creativity in investing requires one to quickly spot 
this flow chart and see the opportunities even beyond microinverters, to the 
potential of energy storage at home, the impact on electric vehicles and 
lithium, and more. 
Creativity and imagination is what truly differentiates top investors  from their 
peers. When others see just one investment case from an insight, creative 
investors see five different investment cases via the ripple effects. Of course, 
some people naturally have this ability, but there are ways to develop them as 
investors. One way to improve your investment creativity is by studying 
history, as we have done in this research. Reviewing both good and bad 
investment cases, studying great entrepreneurs and managers and reading 
how various innovations impacted society. Thanks to the internet, information 
edge is no longer as valuable, given how decentralised information has 
become. Decades ago, one had to wait days to receive an annual report. 
Now, anyone anywhere can obtain the required data in seconds. The future 
edge to outperformance is the ability to turn minimal information into insights, 
wisdom and great investment ideas.  
In the appendix section below, we included the tables of all 446 
outperformers and sorted them by industry. An exercise for you is to link some 
investment cases with big picture charts and assess how their value chain 
charts progressed over time. One chart you might find worth reviewing is in 
cell-based therapy.  
  
267

10.  Turning over new rocks  
The rise of ultra-long-term outperformers like Amazon in the US, Relaxo 
Footwear Limited in India and Vitec Software in Sweden have lured many 
investors into exclusively focusing on compounders that can grow and achieve 
outperformance for many years. The problem with this strategy is that only a 
handful of companies actually achieve outperformance for decades. Among 
the companies that returned more than 1,000% between 2002-2012, only 23 
of 300 companies were among the 446 outperformers between 2012-2022.  
The difficulty in continuous outperformance boils down to the law of large 
numbers, market forces and valuations. If we assess the subset group of 
outperformers today, only 12.5% of the profitable companies have an EV/EBIT 
below 10x, which is well below the 48.9% the subset group had in 2012. From 
an EV/Revenue, the difference is even more striking. Only 4.7% of the subset 
list is currently valued below 1x EV/Revenue, compared to the 50.7% we 
identified in 2012 (see pages 18-19).  
Global outperformers can not always last forever. Business models which 
seemed risky to market participants become investor darlings (i.e. the 
subscription model, see Adobe case study). Sectors in a downturn experience 
an upturn, and their improved fundamentals become reflected in the price (i.e. 
semiconductors, see Lasertec case study). Geographic regions which seem 
risky, gloomy and filled with economic problems turn out to be not as bad as 
market participants thought (i.e. Greece, see Hellenic Telecoms distressed 
investing case study). These and many more factors make outperformance 
more difficult after the first few years.  
The solution is to turn over new rocks, examine new ideas, search for new 
sectors and industries in downturns with depressed valuations, explore 
business models the markets are overly pessimistic on, and identify new 
founders and management sell-side research analysts may have neglected.  
As we have learned, investing is about the future, not the past.  
  
268

Appendix 
General References  
•
S&P CapitalIQ: All company financials and stock price data were from the 
S&P CapitalIQ 
•
MSCI: We predominately utilised data on benchmark performances for 
industries and countries from the MSCI 
Executive Summary and Introduction  
•
History of the first stock exchange. The Amsterdam Stock Market https://
www.worldsfirststockexchange.com/ 
•
The decline in long-term investing https://www.weforum.org/agenda/
2021/12/long-term-investing-decline 
•
100 baggers by Christopher Mayer’s https://www.goodreads.com/work/
quotes/48287535-100-baggers-stocks-that-return-100-to-1-and-how-to-
find-them 
•
The Makings of a Multibagger by Alta Fox Capital LLC https://
www.altafoxcapital.com/research 
North America  
•
585,000 technology companies in the US https://connect.comptia.org/
blog/information-technology-stats-facts 
•
The US has the highest number of patents in force https://
www.statista.com/statistics/257172/ranking-of-the-20-countries-with-the-
most-patents-in-force/ 
•
The US healthcare expenditure per capita https://data.worldbank.org/
indicator/SH.XPD.CHEX.PC.CD 
•
For information on the US semiconductor industry https://
www.semiconductors.org 
•
NVIDIA and AMD dominate the GPU industry https://businessquant.com/
global-gpu-market-share 
•
34 million or 10.5% of Americans, had diabetes as of 2020. https://
www.cdc.gov/diabetes/pdfs/data/statistics/national-diabetes-statistics-
report.pdf 
•
Data on the Canadian mining and energy industry https://
www.nrcan.gc.ca/science-data/science-research/earth-sciences/earth-
  
269

sciences-resources/earth-sciences-federal-programs/canadian-mineral-
production/17722 
•
Brazil was among the fastest growing economies between 2000-2012 
https://www.rfigroup.com/global-retail-banker/news/brazilian-economy-
boom-bust 
•
Mexico’s low stock market volume and activity https://
www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-10-11/mexico-stock-market-is-
so-dead-that-buyouts-are-the-only-action 
Africa and the Middle East  
•
Saudi Arabia’s insurance market was the fastest growing globally https://
marcopolis.net/saudi-s-insurance-market-is-the-fastest-growing-market-for-
insurance.htm 
•
Start-up Nation by Dan Senor https://startupnationbook.com/ 
•
Chutzpah by Inbal Arieli https://chutzpahcenter.com/ 
•
Israel has over 6,000 startups https://www2.deloitte.com/il/en/pages/
innovation/article/the_israeli_technological_eco-system.html 
•
Israel’s home prices rose the fastest in the world over the last decade 
https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/israeli-home-prices-rose-346-percent-
in-a-decade-fastest-in-the-world-678028 
China, Japan and India  
•
More information on China’s technology sector crackdown https://
thechinaproject.com/2021/08/02/chinas-big-tech-crackdown-a-guide/ 
•
A 40-year study on China’s state-owned enterprises https://
www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1755309119300437 
•
China has the largest solar power capacity https://www.iea.org/reports/
solar-pv-global-supply-chains/executive-summary 
•
China has the largest wind power installed capacity https://
energytracker.asia/what-the-2021-china-wind-power-boom-means-for-the-
world/ 
•
Information on China’s hydroelectric generation capacity https://
www.hydropower.org/country-profiles/china 
•
Solar PV supply chain review https://www.energy.gov/eere/solar/solar-
photovoltaics-supply-chain-review-report 
•
The history of China’s automotive industry https://chinacarhistory.com 
  
270

•
China has over 269,000 retail stores https://www.statista.com/statistics/
278146/number-of-retail-chain-stores-in-china/ 
•
Financial Times article questioning the relevance of fundamentals in 
Chinese equities https://www.ft.com/content/2362a9a0-3479-11ea-
a6d3-9a26f8c3cba4 
•
Background on the Japanese asset bubble and its effects https://
www.bis.org/publ/bppdf/bispap21e.pdf 
•
Bubble Economy by Christopher Wood https://www.abebooks.co.uk/
9 7 8 9 7 9 3 7 8 0 1 2 2 / B u b b l e - E c o n o m y - J a p a n s - E x t r a o rd i n a r y -
Speculative-9793780126/plp 
•
The telehealth market is expected to compound by 28% by 2026 https://
www.einnews.com/pr_news/587479967/telehealth-global-market-
estimated-to-grow-at-28-rate 
•
Expected trends in Indian consumption https://www.weforum.org/agenda/
2019/01/10-mega-trends-for-india-in-2030-the-future-of-consumption-in-
one-of-the-fastest-growing-consumer-markets/ 
•
India is currently 3% of the global manufacturing industry https://
diplomatist.com/2020/08/29/india-as-a-global-manufacturing-hub/ 
•
Information on India’s Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) industry https://
www.statista.com/outlook/tmo/it-services/business-process-outsourcing/
india 
•
Exports from India’s IT services industry in 2021 https://www.ibef.org/
industry/information-technology-india  
Asian Tigers and the Asian Tiger cubs  
•
A 1996 report by Michael Sale of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on 
the growth of East Asia https://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/issues1/  
•
Information on South Korea’s position on the Global Innovation iNDEX 
https://www.wipo.int/edocs/pubdocs/en/wipo_pub_gii_2021/kr.pdf  
•
Information on the rise of the South Korean and Taiwanese semiconductor 
industries https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/cn/
Documents/technology-media-telecommunications/cn-tmt-rise-of-the-
big-4-en-082820.pdf  
•
South Korea has more than 20,000 semiconductor-related companies 
https://www.datacenterdynamics.com/en/news/south-korea-to-spend-451-
billion-to-become-semiconductor-manufacturing-giant/  
  
271

•
The South Korean golf industry is the third largest golf market in the world 
at $9.8 billion https://mygolfspy.com/an-inside-look-at-golf-in-korea-its-
different-over-there/ 
•
South Korea will drop its maximum workweek to 52 hours https://
www.businessinsider.com/south-korea-has-dropped-its-inhumane-
workweek-to-52-hours-a-week-2018-7?r=US&IR=T 
•
Why are South Korea’s women so good at golf? https://olympics.com/en/
featured-news/golf-korean-women-success-dedication-klpga-sponsorship 
•
Hong Kong is the city with the most skyscrapers https://archinect.com/
news/article/150324482/these-are-the-global-cities-with-the-most-
skyscrapers 
•
Information on the rising Asian Tiger cubs https://jpt.spe.org/twa/yps-
guide-southeast-asiahow-tiger-cubs-are-becoming-rising-tigers 
•
Malaysia is now the third largest exporter of semiconductor devices 
https://oec.world/en/profile/hs/semiconductor-devices 
Europe  
•
Sweden’s position on the Global Innovation Index https://www.wipo.int/
edocs/pubdocs/en/wipo_pub_gii_2021/se.pdf 
•
Information on the research and development budget of the various 
Nordic economies https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/
GB.XPD.RSDV.GD.ZS?locations=SE 
•
Denmark ranks first on the legate Prosperity Index https://
www.prosperity.com/globe/denmark 
•
The Salmon Farming Industry in Norway report https://www.kontali.com/b/
the-salmon-farming-industry-in-norway-2021-report  
•
Germany has the largest software market in Europe https://www.gtai.de/
en/invest/industries/digital-economy/software 
•
Germany’s construction industry information https://www.globaldata.com/
store/report/germany-construction-market-analysis/ 
•
The great Greek fire sale https://www.theguardian.com/business/2015/jul/
24/greek-debt-crisis-great-greece-fire-sale 
•
Greece may sell all of Hellenic Telecom by the end of June https://
www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2011-05-23/greece-may-sell-hellenic-
telecom-stake-by-june-to-help-pay-nation-s-debt 
  
272

Energy, Materials, Industrials, Utilities and Real Estate 
•
The Arab Spring impact on oil prices and production http://
euanmearns.com/the-arab-spring-impact-on-oil-production/ 
•
Mari Petroleum has an exploration success rate of 70%, compared to the 
industry average of 14%. https://www.weforum.org/organizations/mari-
petroleum-company-limited 
•
Between 2015 and 2016, global exploration of oil fell from 3,500 to 1,600 
https://blogs.worldbank.org/developmenttalk/what-triggered-oil-price-
plunge-2014-2016-and-why-it-failed-deliver-economic-impetus-eight-
charts 
•
The airline industry is exposed to exogenous shocks https://
www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213624X22000256  
•
Global utility industry overview https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/
energy-and-resources/articles/power-and-utilities-industry-outlook.html  
•
A review of the Solar Photovoltaic industry https://iea-pvps.org/wp-
content/uploads/2022/09/PVPS_Trend_Report_2022.pdf 
•
A brief history of the US REITs history https://www.ipf.org.uk/static/
uploaded/21f26407-43c4-4292-9c71ed45f6d2fa13.pdf 
Consumer Discretionary and Consumer Staples  
•
Research on the mega trends in the growing Indian consumer market 
https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2019/01/10-mega-trends-for-india-
in-2030-the-future-of-consumption-in-one-of-the-fastest-growing-
consumer-markets/ 
•
Compiled statistics on India’s consumer durables industry https://
www.ibef.org/industry/indian-consumer-market 
•
India is a global leader in 2 and 3-wheeler vehicles https://www.ibef.org/
industry/india-automobiles 
•
A research article on China’s duty-free and tourism industry https://
daxueconsulting.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/Chinese-Duty-Free-
Consulting_Daxue-Consulting-2019.pdf 
•
Daimler takes a 10% stake in Tesla https://www.wired.com/2009/05/
daimler-tesla/ 
•
A review of the salmon industry downturn in 2012 https://eurofish.dk/low-
supply-faces-strong-demand-for-wild-salmon-in-2012/ 
  
273

Financial Services  
•
Structural challenges the banking industry faces post the financial crisis 
https://www.bis.org/publ/cgfs60.pdf 
•
The Saudi Insurance market was the best performing globally, 
experiencing an 18% CAGR over the last ten years https://saudire.net/
market-overview-en/saudi-markets-en  
Communication Services and Information technology 
•
A breakdown of the declining economics in the telecommunications 
industry https://books.apple.com/gb/book/broadband-boom-bust/
id1242044244  
•
A detailed perspective of the growing South Korean entertainment  and 
pop culture industry https://martinroll.com/resources/articles/asia/korean-
wave-hallyu-the-rise-of-koreas-cultural-economy-pop-culture/  
•
Sweden’s advanced manufacturing market accounts for 75% of its exports 
https://www.trade.gov/market-intelligence/sweden-advanced-
manufacturing-market 
•
Why software is eating the world https://a16z.com/2011/08/20/why-
software-is-eating-the-world/  
•
Perpetual license model versus the subscription model https://
cpl.thalesgroup.com/software-monetization/perpetual-vs-subscription-
licenses 
•
The technology behind EUV and DUV in the lithography process https://
www.asml.com/en/technology/lithography-principles/light-and-lasers 
Healthcare  
•
Applications of the Chinese Pien Tze Huang medical drug https://
cancerci.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12935-021-01785-3 
•
T h e g ro w i n g C h i n e s e O p h t h a l m o l o g i s t m a r k e t h t t p s : / /
daxueconsulting.com/eye-supplements-market-in-china/ 
•
422 million people now have diabetes worldwide https://www.who.int/
health-topics/diabetes#tab=tab_1 
•
History of cell therapy https://the-dna-universe.com/2021/06/24/the-
beginnings-of-stem-cell-therapy/  
  
274

Ten Lessons  
•
40% of the global GDP now comes from Asia. https://www.weforum.org/
agenda/2022/10/global-gdp-asia-economy/ 
•
China doubled its solar energy capacity in 2012 and currently leads the 
industry https://www.reuters.com/article/greenbiz-us-china-solar-
idUKTRE77C0AR20110813 
•
UK equity market descends into ‘uninvestable’ zone https://www.ft.com/
content/bd81b917-658a-3b99-a810-7f1b343ecb1e 
•
Defying Expectations, Japan’s economy falls into recession https://
www.nytimes.com/2014/11/17/business/international/defying-
expectations-japans-economy-shrinks-further.html 
•
Trump’s China deal creates collateral damage for Tech firms https://
www.nytimes.com/2020/01/20/business/economy/trump-us-china-deal-
micron-trade-war.html 
•
India’s life insurance market sees decline in premium collection https://
timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/life-insurers-new-
premium-collection-drops-9-5-in-fy12/articleshow/14863762.cms 
•
R i c h e r, W i s e r, H a p p i e r b y W i l l i a m G r e e n h t t p s : / /
www.williamgreenwrites.com/richer-wiser-happier/ 
  
275

Table of outperformers by Industry  
  
276
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Charge Enterprises, 
Inc. 
(NasdaqGM:CRGE)
8,660.0
Communication 
Services
Saregama India 
Limited 
(BSE:532163)
5,366.8
Communication 
Services
Nexstar Media 
Group, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:NXST)
2,542.8
Communication 
Services
ValueCommerce 
Co., Ltd. (TSE:2491)
2,368.9
Communication 
Services
Toei Animation 
Co.,Ltd. (TSE:4816)
2,354.2
Communication 
Services
CD Projekt S.A. 
(WSE:CDR)
2,262.2
Communication 
Services
Netflix, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:NFLX)
2,078.6
Communication 
Services
YouGov plc 
(AIM:YOU)
1,892.8
Communication 
Services
PT Indoritel Makmur 
Internasional Tbk. 
(IDX:DNET)
1,340.0
Communication 
Services
Gray Television, Inc. 
(NYSE:GTN)
1,318.7
Communication 
Services
Hellenic 
Telecommunications 
Organization S.A. 
(ATSE:HTO)
1,260.8
Communication 
Services
GungHo Online 
Entertainment, Inc. 
(TSE:3765)
1,259.9
Communication 
Services
TechTarget, Inc. 
(NasdaqGM:TTGT)
1,259.3
Communication 
Services
JYP Entertainment 
Corporation 
(KOSDAQ:A035900)
1,185.9
Communication 
Services
Koei Tecmo 
Holdings Co., Ltd. 
(TSE:3635)
1,166.5
Communication 
Services
AfreecaTV Co., Ltd. 
(KOSDAQ:A067160)
1,162.4
Communication 
Services
Next Fifteen 
Communications 
Group plc 
(AIM:NFC)
1,111.1
Communication 
Services
PVR Limited 
(NSEI:PVR)
1,106.2
Communication 
Services
Info Edge (India) 
Limited 
(NSEI:NAUKRI)
1,066.3
Communication 
Services
Tesla, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:TSLA)
12,751.9
Consumer 
Discretionary
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
UNO Minda Limited 
(BSE:532539)
8,470.6
Consumer 
Discretionary
K.P.R. Mill Limited 
(BSE:532889)
7,720.6
Consumer 
Discretionary
JBM Auto Limited 
(BSE:532605)
7,071.8
Consumer 
Discretionary
Garware Technical 
Fibres Limited 
(BSE:509557)
5,995.5
Consumer 
Discretionary
Tadiran Group Ltd 
(TASE:TDRN)
4,942.6
Consumer 
Discretionary
Trident Limited 
(BSE:521064)
4,762.7
Consumer 
Discretionary
Relaxo Footwears 
Limited 
(BSE:530517)
4,481.4
Consumer 
Discretionary
HLB Co., Ltd. 
(KOSDAQ:A028300)
4,460.4
Consumer 
Discretionary
Vaibhav Global 
Limited 
(BSE:532156)
3,658.6
Consumer 
Discretionary
create restaurants 
holdings inc. 
(TSE:3387)
2,799.1
Consumer 
Discretionary
Jindal Worldwide 
(BSE:531543)
2,568.4
Consumer 
Discretionary
Ananti Inc. 
(KOSDAQ:A025980)
2,376.8
Consumer 
Discretionary
Sundaram-Clayton 
Limited 
(BSE:520056)
2,256.6
Consumer 
Discretionary
TVS Motor 
Company Limited 
(BSE:532343)
2,066.5
Consumer 
Discretionary
Maytronics Ltd. 
(TASE:MTRN)
1,965.2
Consumer 
Discretionary
JD Sports Fashion 
plc (LSE:JD.)
1,703.7
Consumer 
Discretionary
Shoei Co., Ltd. 
(TSE:7839)
1,675.7
Consumer 
Discretionary
BYD Company 
Limited (SEHK:1211)
1,674.4
Consumer 
Discretionary
Balkrishna Industries 
(BSE:502355)
1,643.7
Consumer 
Discretionary
Vipshop Holdings 
Limited (NYSE:VIPS)
1,590.9
Consumer 
Discretionary

  
277
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Sundram Fasteners 
(NSEI:SUNDRMFAS
T)
1,463.3
Consumer 
Discretionary
Suprajit 
Engineering(BSE:53
2509)
1,440.7
Consumer 
Discretionary
Johnson Controls-
Hitachi Air 
Conditioning India 
(BSE:523398)
1,410.8
Consumer 
Discretionary
ES-CON JAPAN Ltd. 
(TSE:8892)
1,386.4
Consumer 
Discretionary
Page Industries 
(NSEI:PAGEIND)
1,362.0
Consumer 
Discretionary
ANTA Sports 
Products Limited 
(SEHK:2020)
1,307.2
Consumer 
Discretionary
Humansoft Holding 
Company K.S.C.P. 
(KWSE:HUMANSOF
T)
1,228.5
Consumer 
Discretionary
China Tourism 
Group Duty Free 
Corporation Limited 
(SHSE:601888)
1,203.1
Consumer 
Discretionary
Games Workshop 
Group PLC 
(LSE:GAW)
1,199.1
Consumer 
Discretionary
Magazine Luiza S.A. 
(BOVESPA:MGLU3)
1,175.9
Consumer 
Discretionary
Jumbo Interactive 
Limited (ASX:JIN)
1,164.8
Consumer 
Discretionary
Goldwin Inc. 
(TSE:8111)
1,147.2
Consumer 
Discretionary
Lithia Motors, Inc. 
(NYSE:LAD)
1,146.8
Consumer 
Discretionary
Welspun India 
Limited 
(BSE:514162)
1,140.3
Consumer 
Discretionary
Changzhou Xingyu 
Automotive Lighting 
Systems Co.,Ltd. 
(SHSE:601799)
1,133.1
Consumer 
Discretionary
Trent Limited 
(BSE:500251)
1,125.0
Consumer 
Discretionary
Eicher 
Motors(BSE:505200)
1,114.5
Consumer 
Discretionary
Trigano S.A. 
(ENXTPA:TRI)
1,111.9
Consumer 
Discretionary
Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
(NYSE:DPZ)
1,082.6
Consumer 
Discretionary
Maharashtra 
Scooters Ltd. 
(BSE:500266)
1,077.7
Consumer 
Discretionary
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Nojima Corporation 
(TSE:7419)
1,068.2
Consumer 
Discretionary
Feng Tay 
Enterprises Co., Ltd. 
(TWSE:9910)
1,059.4
Consumer 
Discretionary
Sony Group 
Corporation 
(TSE:6758)
1,053.8
Consumer 
Discretionary
Aristocrat Leisure 
Limited (ASX:ALL)
1,053.2
Consumer 
Discretionary
Amazon.com, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:AMZN)
1,029.2
Consumer 
Discretionary
MercadoLibre, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:MELI)
1,018.8
Consumer 
Discretionary
Celsius Holdings, 
Inc. 
(NasdaqCM:CELH)
17,555.3
Consumer 
Staples
Avanti Feeds 
Limited 
(BSE:512573)
5,916.8
Consumer 
Staples
Kobe Bussan Co., 
Ltd. (TSE:3038)
4,466.2
Consumer 
Staples
Gujarat Ambuja 
Exports Limited 
(BSE:524226)
3,533.6
Consumer 
Staples
MGP Ingredients,
(NasdaqGS:MGPI)
2,844.1
Consumer 
Staples
Norway Royal 
Salmon AS 
(OB:NRS)
2,587.8
Consumer 
Staples
Kotobuki Spirits Co., 
Ltd. (TSE:2222)
2,562.5
Consumer 
Staples
SalMar ASA 
(OB:SALM)
2,300.0
Consumer 
Staples
Hatsun Agro 
Product Limited 
(BSE:531531)
2,174.2
Consumer 
Staples
Grieg Seafood ASA 
(OB:GSF)
2,158.1
Consumer 
Staples
Triveni Engineering 
& Industries Limited 
(BSE:532356)
2,027.6
Consumer 
Staples
CCL Products (India) 
Limited 
(BSE:519600)
1,701.2
Consumer 
Staples
Pakistan Tobacco 
Company Limited 
(KASE:PAKT)
1,672.9
Consumer 
Staples
Tongwei Co.,Ltd 
(SHSE:600438)
1,644.8
Consumer 
Staples

  
278
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
P/F Bakkafrost 
(OB:BAKKA)
1,461.3
Consumer 
Staples
Britannia Industries 
(NSEI:BRITANNIA)
1,264.6
Consumer 
Staples
Constellation 
Brands, Inc. 
(NYSE:STZ)
1,172.5
Consumer 
Staples
RIZAP GROUP, Inc. 
(SPSE:2928)
1,085.2
Consumer 
Staples
PT Siantar Top Tbk 
(IDX:STTP)
1,069.0
Consumer 
Staples
The a2 Milk 
Company Limited 
(NZSE:ATM)
1,030.4
Consumer 
Staples
KRBL Limited 
(NSEI:KRBL)
1,021.2
Consumer 
Staples
Texas Pacific Land 
Corporation 
(NYSE:TPL)
2,636.8
Energy
Mari Petroleum 
Company Limited 
(KASE:MARI)
2,351.1
Energy
VERBIO Vereinigte 
BioEnergie AG 
(XTRA:VBK)
1,852.3
Energy
Neste Oyj 
(HLSE:NESTE)
1,624.5
Energy
Aegis Logistics 
Limited 
(BSE:500003)
1,517.2
Energy
Headwater 
Exploration Inc. 
(TSX:HWX)
1,364.0
Energy
Pantheon Resources 
Plc (AIM:PANR)
1,287.6
Energy
Serica Energy plc 
(AIM:SQZ)
1,010.6
Energy
Bajaj Finance 
Limited 
(NSEI:BAJFINANCE)
7,060.5
Financials
Capri Global Capital 
Limited 
(BSE:531595)
4,238.6
Financials
East Money 
Information Co.,Ltd. 
(SZSE:300059)
4,200.8
Financials
Krungthai Card 
Public Company 
Limited (SET:KTC)
3,657.7
Financials
eGuarantee, Inc. 
(TSE:8771)
2,266.2
Financials
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Can Fin Homes 
Limited 
(BSE:511196)
2,238.3
Financials
Tradegate AG 
Wertpapierhandelsb
ank (DB:T2G)
2,078.5
Financials
Hypoport SE 
(XTRA:HYQ)
2,066.0
Financials
LOLC Holdings 
(COSE:LOLC.N0000
)
2,013.1
Financials
Cholamandalam 
Investment and 
Finance Company 
(BSE:511243)
1,920.4
Financials
Bupa Arabia for 
Cooperative 
Insurance Company 
(SASE:8210)
1,880.8
Financials
Bajaj Finserv Ltd. 
(NSEI:BAJAJFINSV)
1,872.5
Financials
Hithink RoyalFlush 
Information Network 
Co., Ltd. 
(SZSE:300033)
1,842.4
Financials
goeasy Ltd. 
(TSX:GSY)
1,622.4
Financials
B. Riley Financial,
(NasdaqGM:RILY)
1,330.3
Financials
OCI International 
Holdings Limited 
(SEHK:329)
1,284.9
Financials
Meritz Financial 
(KOSE:A138040)
1,245.7
Financials
MSCI Inc. 
(NYSE:MSCI)
1,208.3
Financials
HUB24 Limited 
(ASX:HUB)
1,190.4
Financials
Financial Products 
Group Co., Ltd. 
(TSE:7148)
1,095.8
Financials
Old Second 
Bancorp, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:OSBC)
1,056.8
Financials
Pinnacle Investment 
Management Group 
Limited (ASX:PNI)
3,200.0
Financials
China Investment 
Fund Company 
Limited (SEHK:612)
2,177.3
Financials
Impax Asset 
Management Group 
plc (AIM:IPX)
1,625.5
Financials
eQ Oyj 
(HLSE:EQV1V)
1,231.4
Financials

  
279
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Bure Equity AB 
(publ) (OM:BURE)
1,097.2
Financials
Liontrust Asset 
Management PLC 
(LSE:LIO)
1,050.5
Financials
ChemoMetec A/S 
(CPSE:CHEMM)
20,053.8
Health Care
Caplin Point 
Laboratories Limited 
(BSE:524742)
14,720.7
Health Care
Pro Medicus Limited 
(ASX:PME)
14,181.4
Health Care
Genmab A/S 
(CPSE:GMAB)
4,931.0
Health Care
Revenio Group Oyj 
(HLSE:REG1V)
3,925.0
Health Care
Repligen 
Corporation 
(NasdaqGS:RGEN)
3,921.3
Health Care
Sartorius Stedim 
Biotech S.A. 
(ENXTPA:DIM)
3,272.3
Health Care
NatureCell Co.,Ltd. 
(KOSDAQ:A007390)
3,192.9
Health Care
Sartorius 
Aktiengesellschaft 
(XTRA:SRT3)
2,825.8
Health Care
Vitrolife AB (publ) 
(OM:VITR)
2,790.0
Health Care
Granules India 
Limited 
(BSE:532482)
2,720.6
Health Care
PolyNovo Limited 
(ASX:PNV)
2,706.8
Health Care
DexCom, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:DXCM)
2,669.0
Health Care
Biotage AB (publ) 
(OM:BIOT)
2,662.5
Health Care
J. B. Chemicals & 
Pharmaceuticals 
Limited 
(BSE:506943)
2,514.1
Health Care
Formycon AG 
(XTRA:FYB)
2,332.8
Health Care
Poly Medicure 
Limited 
(BSE:531768)
2,331.1
Health Care
Sam Chun Dang 
Pharm. Co., Ltd 
(KOSDAQ:A000250)
2,147.5
Health Care
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Horizon 
Therapeutics Public 
Limited Company 
(NasdaqGS:HZNP)
2,142.3
Health Care
Addus HomeCare 
Corporation 
(NasdaqGS:ADUS)
1,992.8
Health Care
Aier Eye Hospital 
Group Co., Ltd. 
(SZSE:300015)
1,973.3
Health Care
CellaVision AB 
(publ) (OM:CEVI)
1,959.5
Health Care
Ajanta Pharma 
(NSEI:AJANTPHAR
M)
1,946.1
Health Care
Sarepta 
Therapeutics, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:SRPT)
1,767.8
Health Care
Hanmi Science Co.,
(KOSE:A008930)
1,737.4
Health Care
JEOL Ltd. 
(TSE:6951)
1,679.7
Health Care
Grand 
Pharmaceutical 
Group Limited 
(SEHK:512)
1,676.9
Health Care
Sectra AB (publ) 
(OM:SECT B)
1,597.6
Health Care
Lonza Group AG 
(SWX:LONN)
1,572.1
Health Care
EL.En. S.p.A. 
(BIT:ELN)
1,563.3
Health Care
AMN Healthcare 
Services, Inc. 
(NYSE:AMN)
1,515.0
Health Care
HLB Life Science 
Co., Ltd. 
(KOSDAQ:A067630)
1,419.4
Health Care
Imugene Limited 
(ASX:IMU)
1,400.2
Health Care
Alembic 
Pharmaceuticals 
Limited 
(NSEI:APLLTD)
1,378.8
Health Care
Japan Lifeline Co., 
Ltd. (TSE:7575)
1,374.9
Health Care
Zhangzhou 
Pientzehuang 
Pharmaceutical., Ltd 
(SHSE:600436)
1,319.1
Health Care
Beacon 
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
(DSE:BEACONPHAR
)
1,309.8
Health Care
Neurocrine 
Biosciences, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:NBIX)
1,297.5
Health Care

  
280
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
CVS Group plc 
(AIM:CVSG)
1,290.7
Health Care
Topchoice Medical 
Corporation 
(SHSE:600763)
1,283.4
Health Care
Chongqing Zhifei 
Biological Products 
Co., Ltd. 
(SZSE:300122)
1,263.8
Health Care
JCR 
Pharmaceuticals 
Co., Ltd. (TSE:4552)
1,224.9
Health Care
Laboratorios 
Farmaceuticos Rovi, 
S.A. (BME:ROVI)
1,219.2
Health Care
Ambu A/S 
(CPSE:AMBU B)
1,218.3
Health Care
West 
Pharmaceutical 
Services, Inc. 
(NYSE:WST)
1,198.7
Health Care
Abiomed, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:ABMD)
1,197.1
Health Care
Oneness Biotech 
Co., Ltd. 
(TPEX:4743)
1,192.1
Health Care
M3, Inc. (TSE:2413)
1,186.8
Health Care
Catalyst 
Pharmaceuticals, 
(NasdaqCM:CPRX)
1,180.2
Health Care
Abbott India 
Limited 
(BSE:500488)
1,169.7
Health Care
Evotec SE 
(XTRA:EVT)
1,157.3
Health Care
Sikarin Public 
Company Limited 
(SET:SKR)
1,148.0
Health Care
Universal Vision 
Biotechnology Co., 
Ltd. (TPEX:3218)
1,133.3
Health Care
Oscotec Inc. 
(KOSDAQ:A039200)
1,130.6
Health Care
Alnylam 
Pharmaceuticals, 
(NasdaqGS:ALNY)
1,128.5
Health Care
BioLife Solutions, 
Inc. 
(NasdaqCM:BLFS)
1,125.0
Health Care
Karo Pharma AB 
(publ) (OM:KARO)
1,108.3
Health Care
Simulations Plus, 
Inc. (NasdaqGS:SLP)
1,099.0
Health Care
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
CSPC 
Pharmaceutical 
Group Limited 
(SEHK:1093)
1,094.7
Health Care
ACADIA 
Pharmaceuticals Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:ACAD)
1,070.3
Health Care
Insulet Corporation 
(NasdaqGS:PODD)
1,059.0
Health Care
Molina Healthcare, 
Inc. (NYSE:MOH)
1,037.7
Health Care
Thermo Fisher 
Scientific Inc. 
(NYSE:TMO)
1,024.3
Health Care
Hexatronic Group 
AB (publ) 
(OM:HTRO)
22,055.0
Industrials
S-Pool, Inc. 
(TSE:2471)
15,359.4
Industrials
HLE Glascoat 
Limited 
(BSE:522215)
10,319.4
Industrials
Pentamaster 
Corporation Berhad 
(KLSE:PENTA)
8,096.4
Industrials
KEI Industries 
Limited 
(BSE:517569)
7,062.6
Industrials
DIP Corporation 
(TSE:2379)
6,841.4
Industrials
Astral Limited 
(BSE:532830)
6,705.4
Industrials
Olectra Greentech 
Limited 
(BSE:532439)
5,614.2
Industrials
Invisio AB (publ) 
(OM:IVSO)
5,068.3
Industrials
GMM Pfaudler 
Limited 
(BSE:505255)
4,932.6
Industrials
PT Temas Tbk. 
(IDX:TMAS)
4,718.2
Industrials
Frontken 
Corporation Berhad 
(KLSE:FRONTKN)
4,466.7
Industrials
EVE Energy Co., 
Ltd. (SZSE:300014)
4,216.1
Industrials
Realord Group 
Holdings Limited 
(SEHK:1196)
4,103.2
Industrials
Expolanka Holdings 
PLC 
(COSE:EXPO.N0000
3,693.9
Industrials

  
281
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Benefit One Inc. 
(TSE:2412)
2,557.0
Industrials
Escorts Kubota 
Limited 
(NSEI:ESCORTS)
2,466.9
Industrials
Air Canada (TSX:AC)
2,338.5
Industrials
Vestas Wind 
Systems A/S 
(CPSE:VWS)
2,307.0
Industrials
Sungrow Power 
Supply Co., Ltd. 
(SZSE:300274)
2,186.4
Industrials
Marlowe plc 
(AIM:MRL)
2,102.4
Industrials
KNR Constructions 
Limited 
(BSE:532942)
2,074.1
Industrials
Cargojet Inc. 
(TSX:CJT)
1,987.4
Industrials
STEICO SE 
(XTRA:ST5)
1,970.0
Industrials
PT Samudera 
Indonesia Tbk 
(IDX:SMDR)
1,844.4
Industrials
MonotaRO Co., Ltd. 
(TSE:3064)
1,815.5
Industrials
GEK TERNA 
Holdings, Real 
Estate, Construction 
S.A. 
(ATSE:GEKTERNA)
1,786.8
Industrials
Axon Enterprise, 
Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:AXON)
1,784.0
Industrials
OUTSOURCING Inc. 
(TSE:2427)
1,770.4
Industrials
Daifuku Co., Ltd. 
(TSE:6383)
1,749.7
Industrials
Ashtead Group plc 
(LSE:AHT)
1,703.3
Industrials
Jet2 plc (AIM:JET2)
1,669.7
Industrials
Trex Company, Inc. 
(NYSE:TREX)
1,651.8
Industrials
Cera Sanitaryware 
Limited 
(BSE:532443)
1,570.8
Industrials
Builders FirstSource, 
Inc. (NYSE:BLDR)
1,543.7
Industrials
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Fullcast Holdings 
Co., Ltd. (TSE:4848)
1,532.0
Industrials
SMS Co., Ltd. 
(TSE:2175)
1,514.0
Industrials
Plug Power Inc. 
(NasdaqCM:PLUG)
1,507.0
Industrials
Nihon M&A Center 
Holdings Inc. 
(TSE:2127)
1,506.8
Industrials
SITC International 
Holdings Company 
Limited (SEHK:1308)
1,500.0
Industrials
Teleperformance SE 
(ENXTPA:TEP)
1,497.0
Industrials
V-Guard Industries 
Limited 
(BSE:532953)
1,415.4
Industrials
Delta Plus Group 
(ENXTPA:ALDLT)
1,391.6
Industrials
XANO Industri AB 
(publ) (OM:XANO B)
1,359.2
Industrials
Beijing Easpring 
Material Technology 
CO.,LTD. 
(SZSE:300073)
1,358.7
Industrials
Casella Waste 
Systems, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:CWST)
1,314.6
Industrials
Grindwell Norton 
Limited 
(BSE:506076)
1,304.0
Industrials
MBB SE 
(XTRA:MBB)
1,303.3
Industrials
ID Logistics Group 
SA (ENXTPA:IDL)
1,271.8
Industrials
Saia, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:SAIA)
1,270.2
Industrials
NIBE Industrier AB 
(publ) (OM:NIBE B)
1,261.6
Industrials
Shenzhen Inovance 
Technology Co.,Ltd 
(SZSE:300124)
1,256.3
Industrials
Transport 
Corporation of India 
Limited 
(BSE:532349)
1,253.9
Industrials
Old Dominion 
Freight Line, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:ODFL)
1,233.9
Industrials
Bizlink Holding Inc. 
(TWSE:3665)
1,184.9
Industrials

  
282
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Avis Budget Group, 
Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:CAR)
1,181.3
Industrials
Kajaria Ceramics 
Limited 
(BSE:500233)
1,172.4
Industrials
Fluidra, S.A. 
(BME:FDR)
1,150.8
Industrials
Airports of Thailand 
Public Company 
Limited (SET:AOT)
1,134.5
Industrials
Takeuchi Mfg. Co., 
Ltd. (TSE:6432)
1,123.0
Industrials
Elco Ltd. 
(TASE:ELCO)
1,120.7
Industrials
Judges Scientific plc 
(AIM:JDG)
1,119.5
Industrials
Wan Hai Lines Ltd. 
(TWSE:2615)
1,116.2
Industrials
Beijer Ref AB (publ) 
(OM:BEIJ B)
1,115.4
Industrials
Timken India 
Limited 
(BSE:522113)
1,048.1
Industrials
Ceres Power 
Holdings plc 
(AIM:CWR)
1,040.4
Industrials
Boyd Group 
Services Inc. 
(TSX:BYD)
1,020.4
Industrials
Addtech AB (publ.) 
(OM:ADDT B)
1,018.0
Industrials
Vicor Corporation 
(NasdaqGS:VICR)
1,017.9
Industrials
Kingspan Group plc 
(ISE:KRX)
1,015.5
Industrials
Jasmine Technology 
Solution Public 
Company Limited 
(SET:JTS)
23,283.5
Information 
Technology
Tanla Platforms 
Limited 
(BSE:532790)
22,460.2
Information 
Technology
Lasertec 
Corporation 
(TSE:6920)
10,225.8
Information 
Technology
Altium Limited 
(ASX:ALU)
8,117.1
Information 
Technology
Tata Elxsi Limited 
(BSE:500408)
8,058.1
Information 
Technology
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
cBrain A/S 
(CPSE:CBRAIN)
3,790.9
Information 
Technology
Sonata Software 
Limited 
(BSE:532221)
3,581.7
Information 
Technology
L&F Co., Ltd. 
(KOSDAQ:A066970)
3,372.7
Information 
Technology
AEM Holdings Ltd. 
(SGX:AWX)
3,263.0
Information 
Technology
secunet Security 
Networks 
Aktiengesellschaft 
(XTRA:YSN)
3,137.0
Information 
Technology
Mitsui High-tec, Inc. 
(TSE:6966)
3,114.5
Information 
Technology
NOTE AB (publ) 
(OM:NOTE)
3,051.9
Information 
Technology
PT Metrodata 
Electronics Tbk 
(IDX:MTDL)
3,043.0
Information 
Technology
GMO Payment 
Gateway, Inc. 
(TSE:3769)
3,028.5
Information 
Technology
Borosil Renewables 
Limited 
(BSE:502219)
2,954.3
Information 
Technology
Basler 
Aktiengesellschaft 
(XTRA:BSL)
2,850.4
Information 
Technology
Reply S.p.A. 
(BIT:REY)
2,796.0
Information 
Technology
Inari Amertron 
Berhad (KLSE:INARI)
2,787.0
Information 
Technology
Mastek Limited 
(BSE:523704)
2,779.8
Information 
Technology
D & O Green 
Technologies 
Berhad (KLSE:D&O)
2,600.0
Information 
Technology
Enphase Energy, 
Inc. 
(NasdaqGM:ENPH)
2,598.4
Information 
Technology
JAPAN MATERIAL 
Co., Ltd. (TSE:6055)
2,591.0
Information 
Technology
adesso SE 
(XTRA:ADN1)
2,584.8
Information 
Technology
Nemetschek SE 
(XTRA:NEM)
2,558.4
Information 
Technology
JustSystems 
Corporation 
(TSE:4686)
2,392.1
Information 
Technology

  
283
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Monolithic Power 
Systems, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:MPWR)
2,297.0
Information 
Technology
Alchip 
Technologies, 
Limited 
(TWSE:3661)
2,258.1
Information 
Technology
KCE Electronics 
Public Company 
Limited (SET:KCE)
2,236.3
Information 
Technology
eMemory 
Technology Inc. 
(TPEX:3529)
2,184.9
Information 
Technology
Rand Worldwide, 
Inc. (OTCPK:RWWI)
2,177.6
Information 
Technology
Constellation 
Software Inc. 
(TSX:CSU)
2,150.4
Information 
Technology
Persistent Systems 
Limited 
(BSE:533179)
2,094.4
Information 
Technology
Luxshare Precision 
Industry Co., Ltd. 
(SZSE:002475)
2,017.9
Information 
Technology
BE Semiconductor 
Industries N.V. 
(ENXTAM:BESI)
1,952.6
Information 
Technology
NAURA Technology 
Group Co., Ltd. 
(SZSE:002371)
1,945.5
Information 
Technology
Infomart 
Corporation 
(TSE:2492)
1,913.8
Information 
Technology
Mindtree Limited 
(NSEI:MINDTREE)
1,834.4
Information 
Technology
EPAM Systems, Inc. 
(NYSE:EPAM)
1,834.4
Information 
Technology
Digital Arts Inc. 
(TSE:2326)
1,812.6
Information 
Technology
4iG Nyrt. (BUSE:4IG)
1,797.5
Information 
Technology
My E.G. Services 
Berhad 
(KLSE:MYEG)
1,793.1
Information 
Technology
RDC Semiconductor 
Co., Ltd. 
(TPEX:3228)
1,745.2
Information 
Technology
Esker SA 
(ENXTPA:ALESK)
1,723.5
Information 
Technology
Quest Holdings S.A. 
(ATSE:QUEST)
1,666.9
Information 
Technology
Broadcom Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:AVGO)
1,652.7
Information 
Technology
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
China Zhenhua 
(Group) Science & 
Technology Co., Ltd 
(SZSE:000733)
1,575.6
Information 
Technology
Advanced Micro 
Devices, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:AMD)
1,575.3
Information 
Technology
Tokyo Electron 
Limited (TSE:8035)
1,566.1
Information 
Technology
Foxsemicon 
Integrated 
Technology Inc. 
(TWSE:3413)
1,549.1
Information 
Technology
Unigroup Guoxin 
Microelectronics 
Co., Ltd. 
(SZSE:002049)
1,538.0
Information 
Technology
Delta Electronics 
(Thailand) Public 
Company Limited 
(SET:DELTA)
1,501.9
Information 
Technology
JinkoSolar Holding 
Co., Ltd. (NYSE:JKS)
1,471.0
Information 
Technology
HMS Networks AB 
(publ) (OM:HMS)
1,420.7
Information 
Technology
Clearfield, Inc. 
(NasdaqGM:CLFD)
1,407.3
Information 
Technology
Cadence Design 
Systems, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:CDNS)
1,407.2
Information 
Technology
GFT Technologies 
SE (XTRA:GFT)
1,400.0
Information 
Technology
Nova Ltd. 
(NasdaqGS:NVMI)
1,381.5
Information 
Technology
Lagercrantz Group 
AB (publ) (OM:LAGR 
B)
1,380.3
Information 
Technology
MCJ Co., Ltd. 
(TSE:6670)
1,374.6
Information 
Technology
Forth Corporation 
Public Company 
Limited 
(SET:FORTH)
1,369.7
Information 
Technology
HANMI 
Semiconductor Co., 
Ltd. 
(KOSE:A042700)
1,360.4
Information 
Technology
Jay Mart Public 
Company Limited 
(SET:JMART)
1,358.5
Information 
Technology
DATAGROUP SE 
(XTRA:D6H)
1,349.3
Information 
Technology
ASML Holding N.V. 
(ENXTAM:ASML)
1,344.7
Information 
Technology
Entegris, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:ENTG)
1,339.2
Information 
Technology

  
284
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Ubiquiti Inc. 
(NYSE:UI)
1,302.5
Information 
Technology
Axcelis 
Technologies, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:ACLS)
1,297.7
Information 
Technology
Lam Research 
Corporation 
(NasdaqGS:LRCX)
1,294.2
Information 
Technology
Fortinet, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:FTNT)
1,284.2
Information 
Technology
Information Services 
International-
Dentsu, Ltd. 
(TSE:4812)
1,259.3
Information 
Technology
Camtek Ltd. 
(NasdaqGM:CAMT)
1,254.6
Information 
Technology
RichWave 
Technology 
Corporation 
(TWSE:4968)
1,249.6
Information 
Technology
Adobe Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:ADBE)
1,241.3
Information 
Technology
Tokai Carbon Korea 
Co., Ltd. 
(KOSDAQ:A064760)
1,238.8
Information 
Technology
Accton Technology 
Corporation 
(TWSE:2345)
1,225.7
Information 
Technology
Napco Security 
Technologies, Inc. 
(NasdaqGS:NSSC)
1,220.5
Information 
Technology
Daejoo Electronic 
Materials Co., Ltd. 
(KOSDAQ:A078600)
1,219.3
Information 
Technology
LEENO Industrial 
Inc. 
(KOSDAQ:A058470)
1,215.7
Information 
Technology
ULVAC, Inc. 
(TSE:6728)
1,204.8
Information 
Technology
Zhejiang Jingsheng 
Mechanical & 
Electrical Co., Ltd. 
(SZSE:300316)
1,189.8
Information 
Technology
Firstsource Solutions 
Limited 
(BSE:532809)
1,180.9
Information 
Technology
ASMedia 
Technology Inc. 
(TWSE:5269)
1,175.9
Information 
Technology
Micron Technology, 
Inc. (NasdaqGS:MU)
1,164.4
Information 
Technology
Mycronic AB (publ) 
(OM:MYCR)
1,163.9
Information 
Technology
Episil Technologies 
Inc. (TPEX:3707)
1,158.7
Information 
Technology
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
OBIC Co.,Ltd. 
(TSE:4684)
1,147.9
Information 
Technology
AudioCodes Ltd. 
(NasdaqGS:AUDC)
1,147.8
Information 
Technology
Coforge Limited 
(NSEI:COFORGE)
1,147.3
Information 
Technology
Honeywell 
Automation India 
Limited 
(BSE:517174)
1,134.0
Information 
Technology
Addnode Group AB 
(publ) (OM:ANOD 
B)
1,132.1
Information 
Technology
Wavestone SA 
(ENXTPA:WAVE)
1,118.4
Information 
Technology
ATOSS Software AG 
(XTRA:AOF)
1,117.6
Information 
Technology
Gold Circuit 
Electronics Ltd. 
(TWSE:2368)
1,102.7
Information 
Technology
Kingdee 
International 
Software Group 
Company Limited 
(SEHK:268)
1,100.0
Information 
Technology
AVIC Jonhon 
Optronic 
Technology Co.,Ltd. 
(SZSE:002179)
1,089.4
Information 
Technology
Keyence 
Corporation 
(TSE:6861)
1,063.2
Information 
Technology
One Software 
Technologies Ltd 
(TASE:ONE)
1,062.4
Information 
Technology
TIS Inc. (TSE:3626)
1,058.5
Information 
Technology
Aubay Société 
Anonyme 
(ENXTPA:AUB)
1,056.6
Information 
Technology
SINBON Electronics 
(TWSE:3023)
1,045.1
Information 
Technology
Lattice 
Semiconductor 
Corporation 
(NasdaqGS:LSCC)
1,038.3
Information 
Technology
Applied Materials,
(NasdaqGS:AMAT)
1,035.4
Information 
Technology
Malaysian Pacific 
Industries Berhad 
(KLSE:MPI)
1,005.7
Information 
Technology
Hilan Ltd. 
(TASE:HLAN)
1,002.6
Information 
Technology
Alkyl Amines 
Chemicals Limited 
(BSE:506767)
13,548.8
Materials

  
285
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Deepak Nitrite 
Limited 
(BSE:506401)
12,373.6
Materials
Frontier Lithium Inc. 
(TSXV:FL)
9,328.6
Materials
Bharat Rasayan 
Limited 
(NSEI:BHARATRAS)
9,219.4
Materials
Balaji Amines 
Limited 
(BSE:530999)
8,556.1
Materials
APL Apollo Tubes 
Limited 
(BSE:533758)
5,935.7
Materials
SRF Limited 
(BSE:503806)
5,754.3
Materials
Unipar Carbocloro 
S.A. 
(BOVESPA:UNIP6)
5,112.2
Materials
Aarti Industries 
Limited 
(BSE:524208)
4,455.8
Materials
Navin Fluorine 
International Limited 
(BSE:532504)
4,454.7
Materials
Atul Ltd 
(BSE:500027)
3,991.9
Materials
Vinati Organics 
Limited 
(BSE:524200)
3,627.5
Materials
Rupert Resources 
Ltd. (TSXV:RUP)
3,500.0
Materials
Press Metal 
Aluminium Holdings 
Berhad 
(KLSE:PMETAL)
3,328.1
Materials
KAMA Holdings 
Limited 
(BSE:532468)
3,267.4
Materials
Liontown Resources 
Limited (ASX:LTR)
3,190.8
Materials
Chalice Mining 
Limited (ASX:CHN)
3,161.5
Materials
Lithium Americas 
Corp. (TSX:LAC)
2,849.5
Materials
PI Industries Limited 
(BSE:523642)
2,777.1
Materials
Ganfeng Lithium 
Co., Ltd. 
(SZSE:002460)
2,749.2
Materials
Vicostone Joint 
Stock Company 
(HNX:VCS)
2,685.0
Materials
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
PT. Chandra Asri 
Petrochemical Tbk 
(IDX:TPIA)
2,590.8
Materials
Ratnamani Metals & 
Tubes Limited 
(BSE:520111)
2,568.4
Materials
Toyo Gosei Co.,Ltd. 
(TSE:4970)
2,387.7
Materials
DCM Shriram 
Limited 
(BSE:523367)
2,055.2
Materials
Privi Speciality 
Chemicals Limited 
(BSE:530117)
2,013.3
Materials
Dongwha Enterprise 
Co.,Ltd 
(KOSDAQ:A025900)
1,793.8
Materials
Core Lithium Ltd 
(ASX:CXO)
1,665.8
Materials
Supreme Petrochem 
Limited 
(BSE:500405)
1,651.7
Materials
Kazan Public Joint 
Stock Company 
Organichesky sintez 
(MISX:KZOS)
1,641.0
Materials
RHI Magnesita India 
Limited 
(BSE:534076)
1,610.2
Materials
GHCL Limited 
(NSEI:GHCL)
1,600.1
Materials
Beijing Oriental 
Yuhong Waterproof 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. (SZSE:002271)
1,546.4
Materials
Hansol Chemical 
Co., Ltd. 
(KOSE:A014680)
1,544.0
Materials
SP Group A/S 
(CPSE:SPG)
1,537.2
Materials
J.K. Cement Limited 
(BSE:532644)
1,525.5
Materials
Polyplex 
Corporation Limited 
(BSE:524051)
1,514.5
Materials
Solar Industries 
India Limited 
(BSE:532725)
1,439.8
Materials
Public Joint Stock 
Company Acron 
(MISX:AKRN)
1,437.1
Materials
Shandong Sinocera 
Functional Material 
(SZSE:300285)
1,431.7
Materials
Hoa Phat 
Group(HOSE:HPG)
1,422.2
Materials

  
286
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Century Iron and 
Steel Industrial 
Co.,Ltd. 
(TWSE:9958)
1,342.9
Materials
PT Barito Pacific Tbk 
(IDX:BRPT)
1,339.7
Materials
Lloyds Metals and 
Energy Limited 
(BSE:512455)
1,333.2
Materials
Jiangsu Yangnong 
Chemical Co., Ltd. 
(SHSE:600486)
1,310.6
Materials
Pidilite Industries 
Limited 
(BSE:500331)
1,274.4
Materials
Finolex Industries 
Limited 
(BSE:500940)
1,247.6
Materials
Northern Star 
Resources Limited 
(ASX:NST)
1,225.9
Materials
JCU Corporation 
(TSE:4975)
1,210.9
Materials
public stock 
company VSMPO-
AVISMA 
Corporation 
(MISX:VSMO)
1,201.7
Materials
Treatt plc (LSE:TET)
1,193.9
Materials
Wesdome Gold 
Mines Ltd. 
(TSX:WDO)
1,150.5
Materials
Berger Paints India 
Limited 
(BSE:509480)
1,133.8
Materials
Dottikon Es Holding 
AG (SWX:DESN)
1,129.3
Materials
Miwon Commercial 
Co., Ltd. 
(KOSE:A002840)
1,078.3
Materials
Tianqi Lithium 
Corporation 
(SZSE:002466)
1,072.8
Materials
Public Joint Stock 
Company Polyus 
(MISX:PLZL)
1,052.9
Materials
Greatland Gold plc 
(AIM:GGP)
1,028.2
Materials
Afrimat Limited 
(JSE:AFT)
1,014.0
Materials
StorageVault 
Canada Inc. 
(TSX:SVI)
2,985.7
Real Estate
Company Name and 
Ticker 
Share price 
return
Industry 
Prashkovsky 
Investments and 
Construction Ltd. 
(TASE:PRSK)
2,952.6
Real Estate
Mega Or Holdings 
Ltd (TASE:MGOR)
1,578.4
Real Estate
Stendörren 
Fastigheter AB 
(publ) (OM:STEF B)
1,560.7
Real Estate
Lifestyle 
Communities 
Limited (ASX:LIC)
1,510.5
Real Estate
Brigade Enterprises 
(BSE:532929)
1,345.6
Real Estate
Phat Dat Real Estate 
Development 
(HOSE:PDR)
1,291.0
Real Estate
Fastighets AB 
Balder (publ) 
(OM:BALD B)
1,261.3
Real Estate
BASSAC Société 
anonyme 
(ENXTPA:BASS)
1,138.1
Real Estate
Y.H. Dimri 
Construction & 
Development Ltd 
(TASE:DIMRI)
1,055.3
Real Estate
Israel Canada (T.R) 
Ltd (TASE:ISCN)
1,869.1
Real Estate
Summit Real Estate 
Holdings Ltd 
(TASE:SMT)
1,757.7
Real Estate
Argan SA 
(ENXTPA:ARG)
1,044.0
Real Estate
Solaria Energía y 
Medio Ambiente, 
S.A. (BME:SLR)
7,126.7
Utilities
Enlight Renewable 
Energy Ltd 
(TASE:ENLT)
2,143.5
Utilities
Terna Energy 
Societe Anonyme 
Commercial 
Technical Company 
(ATSE:TENERGY)
1,864.5
Utilities
West Holdings 
Corporation 
(TSE:1407)
1,158.7
Utilities
Super Energy 
Corporation Public 
Company Limited 
(SET:SUPER)
1,080.6
Utilities

:OZO
Z}q't9ZtT'tw
8LIVIWIEVGLMR,PSFEP4YXTIVJSVQIVWMRMXMEPP]WIXSYXXSFI
ERMRXIVREPTETIV[LIVIXLI/IRKEXIEQ[ERXIHXS
YRHIVWXERH[LEXHVMZIWSYXTIVJSVQERGIMRTYFPMGIUYMX]
QEVOIXW

;IWSSRVIEPMWIHSYXTIVJSVQIVWGSQIMRHMJJIVIRXWLETIW
WM^IWGSYRXVMIWERHMRHYWXVMIWERHHIGMHIHXS[VMXIXLMW
FSSOXSWLEVI[LEX[IPIEVRXJVSQWXYH]MRKSZIV
GSQTERMIWXLEXVIXYVRIH	MR]IEVW

/IRKE.RZIWXQIRX5EVXRIVW1XHMWEVIKYPEXIHMRZIWXQIRX
GSQTER]FEWIHMR1SRHSR9RMXIH0MRKHSQ.X[EWJSYRHIH
MRF])IHI*]IWER/IRKEWIIOWXSMRZIWXMRPMWXIH
GSQTERMIWEGVSWWXLI[SVPH[MXLEJYRHEQIRXEPETTVSEGL
