Product:  

What is all the evidence that:

The product has (or does not have) a value proposition to all constituencies (customers, employees, vendors, shareholders, etc) that is both unique and easy to understand? 
The product offering provides (or does not provide), a stable, recurring revenue base? 
The products or services are highly unlikely (or likely) to be commoditized? 
They have a unique “FAN” not “Customer” value proposition. They want their customers become their fans, so that they can introduce their friend/family to bank at republic bank. They believe this is a low cost way of acquiring deposits and ultra loyal customer base. 

Customers  fans  ambassadors business model. 

They are an absolutely customer centric firm, in that they offer first tier customer service, stay open late and on Sundays, and avoiding charge their customers unnecessary fees.  – absolutely free checking account, unlike many of the big banks. Allpoints ATM access as well. 

They offer competitive rates, better than large financial institutions, however, their rates are not the highest – online banks and other smaller banks often offer more attractive rates (DIME, Apple bank, etc). I believe their very nice customer centric approach made the customer so happy that they are not that price sensitive. 

It’s model is a bit similar to the TD bank, but TD’s service has been declining. 

Their model is unlikely to be commoditize, because big bank’s model is just different – they don’t make much money on the retail side; many smaller banks are already established its own culture and infrastructure, hard to rationalize a drastic change like this; Finally, it is still very expensive to start a new bank and live through its expensive expansion stage – investors need to believe in you, and no many people have the track record like Vernon Hill. 

On the lending size, they are highly focused on local community – this plays into their strength: if they have such a good reputation in the neighborhood on the retail banking side, local small business owners would also like to use their service. 
What is all the evidence that there is (or is not) a large market potential for the product with the opportunity to grow for the foreseeable future? 
They are only in a few counties in South Jersey and Phily suburbs. They can easily expand to adjacent counties and they are planning to do so rather quickly. All of their proposed locations are conveniently located near upper/middle class “good” neighborhoods with decent population density. As they move further north, there is no lack of such neighborhoods. 

An evidence of their popularity and attractiveness is that “annual deposit growth per store was a record $23m, while growth in our new stores was $38 million. “ – this means that customer are looking forward to their opening and were eagerly anticipating to deposit money to them. (already has name recognition and words spreading fast).

Historically commerce bank and Metro bank (both Vernon Hill’s enterprises) grew to hundreds of branches. 

 

What is all the evidence that there is (or is not) a definable competitive advantage (Either in culture, product, market share, etc.) in a business niche that we can understand?  If there IS a competitive advantage, what is it and what makes it unique and sustainable? 

Sales and Marketing: 

What is all the evidence that this company has (or does not have) an above average sales and marketing organization? 
Vernon Hill appears in annual statement holding a dog – shows hometown banker and friendliness. 
They provide bank lollipops and dog bones and water bowls. – pet friendly.
Customer review shows painless account opening process and handwritten thank you cards. 

Very attractive architecture, and very welcoming customer service folks. 
Free coin counting machine; ATM/Debit card on the spot; 
Financial/Accounting: 

 
What do the historical financials tell us, are there any meaningful trends?
What does the financial history tell you about the business and your ability to forecast it?  
Is this a business that currently generates, or in the future will generate, significant Economic Value Added (EVA)?  Calculate current  EVA?
What are the financial characteristics of a great business? And what is all the evidence that that this company has (or does not have) the financial characteristics of a potentially great business?  
What are the unit economics if determinable? 

All the Revenue, Net Income and Total assets have been growing steadily in the past 3 -5 years.
In the past 3 years, its operating income margin is above 7%, Net income margin is 8%-10%, so it has significant EVA. If we set this kind of equity’s premium as 3%-4%, the return benchmark could be 6% -7% with 3% from debt return. So the current EVA is about (10-6) 4%.





What is all the evidence that the accounting and financial disclosure are (or are not) both complete and easy to understand?  
Is it easy to determine the “OWNERS EARNINGS” (see THE ESSAYS OF WARREN BUFFETT. PG 197)?  If so what are they specifically, and are they different than the GAAP accounting earnings, and why?   
What do you do with this owner’s earnings number now that you have it?
     It’s difficult to determine the owners earnings. 
The owners earning is a negative number, because the change in working capital is a big negative number, that means the company needs more capital to grow.      This reduce the owner earnings. So it is different from the GAAP accounting earnings.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

What is all the evidence that that there is (or is not) a high probability of either increasing margins or, at worst, maintaining them through a variety of potential business environments? 

 Near 70% of the total loan is  Owner occupied real estate and  Commercial real estate. This kind of loan has good collaterals, so there is a high probability that its margin will increase or maintain.

What is all the evidence that that the company has (or does not have) good controls and cost analysis?  

   Salaries and employee benefits(28,602000) is 50% of its Non-interest expenses and 62% of its  Net interest income after provision for loan losses. So it does not have good controls and cost analysis. 
Culture and Management: 

What is all the evidence that top management has (or does not have) a clear vision of what the company can be “best in the world at” (This point is written about in Good To Great)?  If they have a clear vision, what evidence is there that they are (or are not) intensely focused on it?  

WE OFFER “BIG BANK” BENEFITS WITH A SMALL TOWN FEEL.
We are one of the largest Philadelphia-based banks, yet we make decisions locally, and we make them quickly. We pride ourselves on our retail-based model focused on convenience and fanatic customer service. We make banking easy for our customers and we get to know our customers so we can better serve their needs.

We are different from the other banks—when we say “convenient” we really mean it. We offer premier conveniences that many other banks do not, such as:

Open early, open late
Absolutely FREE Personal Checking
Absolutely FREE Business Checking1
FREE Coin Counting2
ATM/Debit Cards “On The Spot”
Fee FREE ATM anywhere you see Allpoint3
Bank anywhere in store, online, phone or mobile





What is all the evidence that the company has (or does not have) depth to its management? 

Management has previous experience and good track record.
We recruited several key banking executives who had previously served in leadership roles at Commerce Bank, upon which this business model draws inspiration.  With a strong management team in place, along with adequate capital resources to support this revitalized vision, we began to build a unique brand with the goal of establishing ourselves as a premier financial institution in the Philadelphia metropolitan area.

https://www.myrepublicbank.com/about-us/executive-team

Our retail strategy relies heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations.
In recent years, we have been successful in attracting new and talented employees to Republic, to add to our management team.   We believe that our ability to successfully implement our retail strategy will require us to retain and attract additional management experienced in banking and financial services, and familiar with the communities in our market.  Our ability to retain executive officers, the current management team, branch managers and loan officers of Republic will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy.  It is also critical, as we grow, to be able to attract and retain additional members of the management team and qualified loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market areas to implement the community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.


 What is all the evidence that there is (or is not) an appropriately focused entrepreneurial culture that is both unique and sustainable?  (ie what is the evidence that they can (or cannot) get things done?)
Store Expansion Plans and Growth Strategy
 
We will carefully evaluate growth opportunities throughout 2017 and beyond.  Renovation and refurbishment of all existing store locations took place during 2009.  The Bank relocated an existing store to a new improved site in Wynnewood, PA during 2016. We also opened two new stores located in Washington Township and Moorestown, NJ utilizing our new and distinctive prototype building in 2016. The Bank anticipates the continuation of its expansion strategy through the opening of additional new stores in 2017. Relocation of other existing store locations may also occur in the future as we continue to enhance our brand and focus on constantly improving the customer experience. The opening and relocation of these stores is subject to regulatory approval.

The addition of Oak Mortgage as a wholly owned subsidiary in July 2016 provides us with new growth opportunities in the residential lending market. Oak Mortgage is licensed to do business in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, and Florida and gives us the ability to serve both new and existing customers throughout our store network.


Management orientation:

What is all the evidence that they are (or are not) a management team that demonstrably thinks and acts like owners?  

What is all the evidence that top management has (or does not have) a demonstrated understanding that the financial purpose of a public company it to build EVA (or something that is the equivalent of EVA) in per share terms?  


If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, current and potential shareholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosures and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny.

Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, referred to as Section 404, we are required to include in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our management's report on internal control over financial reporting. While we have reported no material weaknesses in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any material weaknesses in the future.
 
Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming. If, in the future, we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting.  In addition, any failure to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures could cause our current and potential shareholders and customers to lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Exchange Act, which could adversely affect our business.



What is all the evidence that they have (or do not have) a thoughtful, shareholder oriented compensation structure throughout the company? 

 Our ability to pay dividends depends upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries.

We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock.  Our Board of Directors intends to follow a policy of retaining earnings for the purpose of increasing our capital for the foreseeable future.
 
Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends if, as and when declared from time to time by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion out of funds legally available for that purpose, after debt service payments and payments of dividends required to be paid on our outstanding preferred stock, if any.
 
While we, as a bank holding company, are not subject to certain restrictions on dividends applicable to Republic, our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock will depend to a large extent upon the amount of dividends paid by Republic to us.  Regulatory authorities restrict the amount of cash dividends Republic can declare and pay without prior regulatory approval.  Presently, Republic cannot declare or pay dividends in any one-year in excess of retained earnings for that year subject to risk based capital requirements.

What is all the evidence that they are a management team with unquestionable integrity and business ethics?  Do they avoid self-dealings and any improper behavior?


We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors. 
Employee errors and misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence.

 
We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors, and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

What is all the evidence that they have (or do not have) outstanding employee relations?  

CEO  has adopted many of Commerce’s retail-friendly strategies — free checking, coin counting machines, pet treats, longer hours. That might have something to do with the fact that more than 85 percent of its employees once worked at Commerce.
Is there anything else unique to this company that should be considered?

The asset quality is attractive, growth trend is nice, but the Salaries and employee benefits are very high, raised some con
Your valuation.  (REMEMBER WHAT THE VALUE OF AN ASSET IS) Is this company a potentially attractive or unattractive as an investment?  In detail show why.

 
